Keene Woman Sentenced for Urinating on Food and Hotel Property, Ordered to Pay $10K Restitution

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-keene-woman-sentenced-for-urinating-on-food-and-hotel-property-ordered-to-pay-10k-restitution/

Keene woman Kelli Tedford sentenced for urinating on food at a grocery store and hotel property

KEENE, N.H. ( MyKeeneNow ) – A Keene woman has been sentenced after pleading guilty to multiple misdemeanor charges in connection with separate incidents earlier this year that involved damage to local businesses.

In Cheshire Superior Court Monday, Kelli Tedford pleaded guilty to all six counts of criminal mischief, all misdemeanors. Prosecutors had originally filed a felony charge, but it was reduced as part of a plea agreement.

Judge Anne Edwards sentenced Tedford to 360 in jail with 180 days, half of that sentence, suspended for three years. Under the terms of the sentence, she could face additional jail time if she commits another crime within that period. Upon her release, Tedford will serve two years of probation.

The charges stem from incidents at the Monadnock Food Co-Op and the Marriott Keene on Railroad Street. Authorities say Tedford caused damage that included urinating on food and hotel property. As part of her sentence, she is banned from entering both businesses and has been ordered to pay more than $10,000 in restitution to cover losses.

Police previously indicated that videos recovered during the investigation suggest other similar incidents may have occurred in the area over several years, but no additional charges have been filed.

Abbie is News Director and an award-winning reporter for Monadnock Media Group, recognized several times by the New Hampshire Association of Broadcasters. Abbie can be reached by email at atrombly@wkbkradio.com.

Keene ombudsman George Downing tells WKBK he’s working to meet every downtown stakeholder ahead of the city’s two-year rebuild.

Keene officials are urging residents to prepare for rotating winter parking bans and to use designated lots when overnight street parking is restricted.

Rindge police are investigating a string of road-sign vandalisms that pose safety concerns and could leave taxpayers footing replacement costs.

A potentially significant winter storm Tuesday could drop more than six inches of snow and disrupt travel across Maine and New Hampshire.

Keene woman Kelli Tedford sentenced for urinating on food at a grocery store and hotel property
