Clearer video released of potential person of interest in Brown University shooting

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/new-clearer-video-brown-university-shooting-121525/69733395

Police in Rhode Island released new surveillance video Monday afternoon showing a person of interest in the deadly shooting at Brown University.

During a news conference, authorities shared additional footage that shows the person of interest walking through nearby neighborhoods in the hours before the shooting at the Barus and Holley building, which houses the School of Engineering and the physics department.

The person appears to be a man wearing a face mask, a knit cap and dark clothing, including a two-tone jacket.

Earlier in the day, a grainy video that was recorded moments after the shooting was released. The video did not provide a clear view of the person, but showed the person's walking gait.

"Video evidence has been coming in at a much greater degree than it was 12, 24, 36 hours ago. Why, you ask? Some people were away for the weekend. Some of these places were businesses," said Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Neronha. "There are a bunch of teams doing different things – exploiting electronic evidence, exploiting physical evidence, forensic evidence from the crime scene, canvassing the neighborhood. Those are the threads, that when you pull them, will open this case up."

>> See new video released Monday afternoon:

Two people were killed and nine others were hurt when someone opened fire inside the building on Saturday. Police said they are increasing patrols in the area as the manhunt intensifies and students leave campus .

"We have enhanced enforcement in that area. We have, Steph stated earlier, we have a lot of officers in the area. So in essence, it's going to be safe, but, however, as well, I just want to remind the community that our priority as law enforcement in the city, is to keep our constituents safe, keep them informed and to keep them committed, to understand that we are professionally dedicated that we're going to put somebody in handcuffs," said Providence Police Department Colonel Oscar Perez.

The FBI is offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the shooter, who authorities say is believed to be armed and dangerous.

Police said the investigation remains active and ongoing.

A memorial has been set up outside the building where the shooting occurred. Students have placed flowers and paid their respects, saying they're trying to understand the magnitude of what happened.

See previously released video of person of interest:
