Hillsborough County Jail says phone lines are back after cybersecurity network outage

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-11-29
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/nh-hillsborough-county-cybersecurity-outage-112925/69583286

Officials at the Hillsborough County Jail say outgoing phone communications are online as of Saturday morning, after a cybersecurity incident caused an outage last weekend that some say left them unable to contact loved ones at the facility.

A network outage at Hillsborough County government offices last weekend was the result of a "cybersecurity incident," officials said in a statement earlier this week.

WMUR first reported the outage last Monday. County officials said that after discovering the incident, affected systems were taken offline "out of an abundance of caution."

Upon request for an update, a spokesperson for Hillsborough sent the same statement issued earlier in the week that said in part:

" We immediately activated our incident response protocols and took the affected systems offline to protect our network and our data."

While officials confirm that the phones were working as of early Saturday, they did not confirm whether phone systems were affected as a result of the outage. It comes as sources tell News 9 they haven't been able to contact loved ones inside the facility, in some cases for weeks longer than the outage has been public.

Carol Ganley says her son has been held at the facility for nearly two years, and stays in touch with the family regularly.

On November 2, Carol experienced a medical emergency that put her in the hospital. While she was unable to inform her son what happened at first, her daughter contacted the jail to keep him updated.

Once Carol was released from the hospital, she experienced difficulties reaching her son again. Not only did she stop receiving regular calls, she says the jail refused her requests to speak to him so she could tell him she was home.

"I was mad. I said, 'What? Are you stopping Danny from calling? This is not right,'" Ganley recounted.

Ganley noted that she didn't hear from her son for weeks, even before the outage announcement.

"I always worry. If he didn't call me for a day or so, I'd get nervous," Ganley said.

Her son finally called her Saturday night, but Ganley said the conversation lasted only five minutes before guards took the phone away.

She says she feels the facility could have done so much more to keep her and her son in touch, especially during a tense time.

"They could have called the hospital," she said. "He could have said, 'Could you call my sister and see how my mom is?' (for all I know). No, they did not even make an attempt."

The county's statement adds that it's working with cybersecurity experts to conduct an investigation, which is "early and ongoing." It also adds it will provide updates "as appropriate."
