Midwives hope to fill Lamoille County’s maternity care void with new birth center

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/19/midwives-hope-fill-lamoille-countys-maternity-care-void-with-potential-new-birth-center/

MORRISVILLE, Vt. (WCAX) - Following the closure of Copley Hospital’s Birthing Center last month, a group of midwives is hoping to set up a a free-standing birth center in the Waterbury area.

Copley Hospital says it shut down its birthing center on November 1st because of the low birth rate in Lamoille County, coupled with the high costs of delivery.

“I would say it was a sad process for closure,” said Samantha Allaire from Copley Hospital.

Two of the midwives from Copley, with some of their peers from across Vermont, decided they wanted to be the first to open a free-standing birth center in the state, a process newly allowed by the Legislature.

“Labor and delivery is scary, so I’m hoping that anything that we do will help both parents, babies, and families,” said Allaire.

Copley Hospital donated more than $30,000 of equipment to the newly conceived Green Mountain Birth Center, but it’s going to take a lot more than fetal monitors and carts to get the birth center’s doors open.

“We need $2 million, we don’t even have a tenth of that,” said Mary Lou Kopas, board member of Green Mountain Birth Center . She says if they were able to raise half a million, their midwives could start prenatal services in Morrisville. Right now, Lamoille County has no maternal specialty care. “People could come to the birth center, get their prenatal care, deliver there if they’re low risk, and if they end up needing a hospital, we would want to site it within 20 minutes of a hospital with obstetric services.”

Kopas says they’re looking at a property in Waterbury to open the center. She believes they will start accepting new patients in two years. “People like midwifery care. A lot of people are interested in natural childbirth. A lot of people are interested in more of a relationship with their provider and sort of low‑key, less medical intervention. So, it’s a great model for Vermont in that way,” she said.
