Frank Landry

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/12/frank-landry/

Born Jan. 7, 1960

Newton, Massachusetts

Died Dec. 6, 2025

South Burlington, Vermont

Details of services

A Mass of Christian burial is being celebrated in the Chapel of Saint Michael the Archangel on the campus of Saint Michael’s College in Colchester on Friday, December 12, at 10:00 a.m.  Interment will be private at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Professor Edward Pfeifer Scholarship Fund, Saint Michael’s College, 1 Winooski Park, Box 256, Colchester, VT 05439; or to Home Health and Hospice, University of Vermont Health, 1110 Prim Road, Colchester, VT 05446.

Frank Landry, M.D., died peacefully on Saturday, Dec. 6, on home hospice, after suffering the effects of the acute illness Goodpasture Syndrome.

Born in Newton, Massachusetts, to Frank and Nan Landry on Jan. 27, 1960, Frank grew up with his beloved siblings Joan, David, Nannette and Michael.  There he appreciated the beauty of the ocean and all it offered — swimming, fishing, exploring salt marshes and clamming.

With the death of his father at age 8, the family was left financially burdened but emotionally rich.  Their mother taught the family the tremendous importance of a work ethic, something Frank embraced his entire life.  With his two brothers in their own neighborhood landscaping company, Frank cared for the property of the summer Scituate residents.

Frank was proud of his excellent public education in Scituate. Combining his hard-earned savings with scholarship funds, he attended and graduated from Saint Michael’s College in 1982, proud to pay his own way.  He met Justine Pfeifer there, the kindest, most loving woman on the planet.

Frank wanted to be a doctor and follow in his brother David’s footsteps, studying medicine. Though crushed by David’s suicide, he maintained a commitment to medicine as a career.  Frank graduated from Tufts University School of Medicine in 1987, receiving a Health Professions Scholarship through the U. S. Army.  Besides marrying Justine and adopting his children, Frank always said that the ten years serving for the country was the best thing he ever did.

He completed his training in Internal Medicine at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the Uniformed Services University Medical School.  He served ten years in the Medical Corps at Walter Reed and at Madigan Army Medical Center in Tacoma, Washington. His passion was not just doctoring, but also teaching and mentoring medical students and residents.  During his tenure in the service, he traveled the country and world, serving during Desert Storm, and receiving numerous awards for teaching and medical practice.

Moving to Vermont in 1996 to be closer to family, Frank joined UVM Medical Center and UVM Medical School  as an associate professor of medicine.  He opened his own practice in Burlington’s New North End, recruiting and mentoring younger doctors, showing them the joy of an independent practice.  In 2011, Frank further defined his clinical practice by establishing the first MDVIP concierge internal medicine practice in Vermont.  He was always an advocate for the independent doctor.

Over the years, Frank served as medical director of Birchwood Terrace Health Care, president of FAHC Medical Staff in 2004, governor of the American College of Physicians (Vermont Chapter) and president of Vermont Internal Medicine.

His greatest enjoyment in life came from his family.  Frank was passionate about embracing life in Vermont with Justine and their two sons, Nick and Matt. Fishing, swimming, sledding, and exploring with his boys at the Pfeifer home on Molly’s Falls Pond in Cabot was the delight of his life. He was most proud of Nick and Matt, despite all the usual struggles of growing up, for how well they have done, and how well they chose their partners, Martha and Rachel.

Frank leaves his wife and friend of 40 years, Justine Pfeifer Landry, as well as his best friends — his sons and their spouses — Nick and Martha, Matt and Rachel. He is survived by his siblings and their spouses in Massachusetts:  Joan (Clinton), Nannette (Paul), and Michael (Janet), as well as his sister- and brothers-in-law, Elizabeth, John (Brenda), and Martin (David).  He was always grateful for the loyalty of his patients, treating them as part of his family.

Frank and his family wish to express their gratitude for the exceptional care he received from the nurses on McClure 6 as well as the staff of the dialysis unit at UVMMC.
