Prosecutor accuses retiring Rutland chief of suppressing damning report into officers’ action in deadly pursuit

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/22/prosecutor-accuses-retiring-rutland-chief-of-suppressing-damning-report-into-officers-action-in-deadly-pursuit/

Rutland County State’s Attorney Ian Sullivan has issued a Brady letter against retiring Rutland City Police Chief Brian Kilcullen and retired Rutland City Police Commander Sam Delpha, accusing them of suppressing a report critical of officers’ action in a deadly chase.

Sullivan’s letter stated that the two had improperly failed to disclose the findings of the internal affairs report that sharply criticized police officers’ for their roles in the vehicle pursuit that killed a fellow officer and led to a murder charge against another man.

The prosecutor’s letter was sent Monday to defense attorneys in Rutland County. Often termed a “Brady” or “Giglio” letter, the names refer to national court cases. The letters, which can end a law enforcement officer’s career, are filed when an officer’s credibility is called into question.

The internal affairs report became public through a court filing by the lawyer for the Salisbury man, 22-year-old Tate Rheaume, facing an aggravated murder charge in the death of the officer, 19-year-old Jessica Ebbighausen, during the high-speed chase in Rutland in July 2023.

The action Monday by Sullivan comes two days after the Rutland City Police Commission held a special meeting where it announced that Kilcullen, who had been city police chief since 2015, would be retiring early , effective March 1.

According to the public statement Saturday from the commission, supervisory oversight of the department has been passed to Rutland City Police Commander Matthew Prouty, who will serve as interim police chief with Kilcullen providing support to him during the transition.

The internal report on the investigation, conducted and authored by Delpha, found that Ebbighausen’s death was “preventable” if police had followed proper procedures. Ebbighausen had only joined the department a few weeks earlier as a new recruit.

Rheaume, who was driving the vehicle pursued by police that day, has been held in jail without bail awaiting trial on a murder charge in Ebbighausen’s death.

VTDigger reported on the investigation’s findings earlier this month, and Seven Days reported that Kilcullen had known about the report but had not discussed its contents with the police commission, the civilian panel charged with providing oversight of the police department.

According to Sullivan’s letter, despite assurances that his office would be kept “in the loop” about the completion of the internal investigation, he wasn’t told when it was done.

Kilcullen, a footnote in the letter stated, had reported to the Rutland City Police Commission that the report was finished in March 2025.

“Despite the numerous requests for information about the timing of completion of the internal investigation and a commitment by the former City Attorney to do so,” Sullivan wrote, “Chief Kilcullen did not inform the State’s Attorney’s Office that the internal investigation was complete in March of 2025, April of 2025, May of 2025, June of 2025, July of 2025, August of 2025, or September of 2025.”

Also, according to Sullivan, Kilcullen did not disclose to the police commission the contents of the report or its findings. The findings only became public when David Sleigh, Rheaume’s attorney, subpoenaed the report and eventually filed it in court as part of a defense motion.

In his letter, Sullivan wrote that at a meeting of the police commission earlier this month, a commissioner asked Kilcullen why he withheld the report, and Kilcullen allegedly replied, “to avoid potentially impacting” the criminal case against Rheaume.

“The prosecution did not tell Chief Kilcullen that suppression of evidence favorable to the defense is acceptable,” Sullivan wrote in his letter. “Quite to the contrary, we sought the internal investigation materials so we could disclose them to the defense.”

The prosecutor added that Kilcullen’s statements to Seven Days and the police commission “demonstrate that he suppressed evidence favorable to the defendant in a criminal case in an attempt to shape the trial.”

“Despite reaching conclusions that were favorable to a criminal defendant, Retired Commander Delpha did not provide this information to the Rutland County State’s Attorney’s Office,” Sullivan wrote.

Neither Kilcullen nor Delpha, who retired earlier this year, could immediately be reached Monday for comment.

This story will be updated.

But here’s the truth: Each month, more than 500,000 people read VTDigger, but fewer than 2% donate. We need your help to close that gap and keep providing the public service Vermonters rely on.

Your gift isn’t extra. It’s essential. It keeps our journalism independent and freely accessible to all Vermonters. And this season, it does double duty : powering VTDigger’s newsroom and heating a home for a day through our partnership with the Warmth Support Program of Vermont’s Community Action Agencies.

Sky Barsch, CEO, VTDigger
