Essex Junction crafters create recovery pillows

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/18/essex-junction-crafters-create-recovery-pillows/

ESSEX JUNCTION, Vt. (WCAX) - A group of volunteers has donated more than 1,000 handmade comfort pillows to Vermont surgery patients since 2018, and they’re not slowing down.

With a few feet of fabric and a steady hand, crafters in Essex Junction create a special kind of pillow to help those in recovery, comforting countless Vermonters in their most vulnerable moments.

Brenda Rousselle expertly guides a strip of blue fabric through a sewing machine. A few more turns and it’ll be a comfort pillow.

“They are used as protection. If you have a mastectomy, breast surgery, open heart surgery, they can go under your seat belt. Abdominal surgery, when they tell you to cough and cough and cough, it’s a pillow to hold yourself doing that,” said Rouselle.

She makes them with other members of the fraternal organization Blue Spruce Grange. They spend hours sewing pillows to donate to folks in need across the state.

“Somebody found a pattern online and said, ‘That looks really good.’ So, we made up some comfort pillows, and we took them to the hospital and said, ‘Is this something that you could use?’ And they just grabbed them right up,” said Rouselle.

Today, they donate to the University of Vermont, Porter and Central Vermont Medical Centers, UVM’s Home Health and Hospice, and various community groups.

Rousselle estimates they’ve handed out more than 1,000 pillows since their start in 2018. The grange pays for stuffing, but all the fabric is gifted. They collect donations at the Champlain Valley Fair and year-round from anyone willing to give.

“We hear from people, ‘Oh, my mother-in-law just passed away, we’re cleaning out her sewing room, could you use the material?’ Yes,” said Rouselle.

In her sewing room -- her happy place -- Rousselle loves spending time on the craft, but at the heart of the comfort pillow is community.

Reporter Sophia Thomas: What’s it like knowing that your creations are serving that purpose for people in such a vulnerable moment in their lives?

Brenda Rousselle: It’s very satisfying. When we get the letters back from the medical center or Porter or from the veterans home thanking us for the pillows -- it’s very satisfying.

The Blue Spruce Grange also makes hospital lap quilts and dolls that doctors draw on to show young patients what to expect during procedures.

If you have fabric you want to donate or you’re interested in pillows, email brousselle@myfairpoint.net .
