Operation Fire Cuffs brings Christmas joy to patients at UVM Children’s Hospital

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/18/operation-fire-cuffs-brings-christmas-joy-patients-uvm-childrens-hospital/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Santa arrived early at UVM’s Children’s Hospital Thursday, hitching a ride with members of the Burlington Fire Department as part of Operation Fire Cuffs.

Burlington Assistant Fire Marshal Philip Edgerley helped come up with the idea for the annual event. “At the time, we had some co-workers -- both of us that had children in the hospital at the time -- and we just went with the idea and it kind of stuck,” Edgerley said.

Standing in for Santa’s elves, the Burlington Fire Department worked alongside businesses and dozens of police and fire agencies from across the state to collect new toys and gift cards for kids spending Christmas at the hospital.

The hospital’s Dr. Lewis First says the goal is to provide joy and a sense of normalcy during a time when it’s anything but normal. “Our goal is to have as few numbers of children as possible spend their time in the hospital, but right now, we’re pretty full, and we have a lot of children who are going to be here over the holidays,” he said.

At the hospital, Santa read “Twas the Night Before Christmas” to a captivated crowd of kids, emergency personnel, and mascots Champ and Rally Cat.

The celebration was extra special this year as Operation Fire Cuffs marks 15 years of making spirits bright. The hospital gifted commemorative plaques to the team of people who make the event possible year after year.

“Our day-to-day jobs, you know, we see the worst. And for us to give back to the community and to the Children’s Hospital and just see the joy in so many faces, it makes it all worth it,” said Vermont State Police Detective Sergeant Mike Mattuccio.

Over 45 organizations collected over $30,000 worth of gifts, making it their biggest year yet.

“Nobody wants to see their child in the hospital at the holidays or any time of the year, but the holidays can be especially challenging when families hope to be home with their loved ones. Operation Fire Cups allows us to truly customize a holiday season for each and every child,” First said.

All with the hope of bringing a smile to the faces of kids in need of some extra holiday cheer.
