Economic gloom puts drag on charity donations

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/holiday-charitable-giving-monadnock-region-nh/article_0a9c24b4-e149-41ba-aa09-6881eb6cc2f3.html

It’s the season for giving, a time when many nonprofits see a year-end surge in donations.

Some local charities say there’s a lot of need in the community right now. Amid a weakening job market and other economic pressures, more people seem to be struggling to make ends meet.

“We still have people messaging us, emailing every day, begging for help for their kids,” said Jennifer Dassau, executive director of Keene-based nonprofit Feeding Tiny Tummies, which is in the midst of its annual Christmas gift drive.

That program gives toys and other gifts to around 500 local children in need each year. Dassau said she’s seeing an “astronomical” increase in requests compared to past years – as well as posts in Facebook groups for parents that make clear people are struggling.

“Moms are posting, like, ‘I don’t have anything for my children for Christmas, but I was thinking about doing coupons for them for play dates with so-and-so. Is there anybody that’d be willing to do play dates with us?’” Dassau said. “And I’m thinking, that’s really incredibly creative, but it makes me very sad that they’re that desperate.”

Meeting those needs has been a challenge, Dassau said, estimating as of Monday that donations were down about 40 percent compared to previous years.

“In years past, we’ve had some pretty big businesses that have helped, and are unable to this year,” she said. “You know, the economy’s different. So right now we’re struggling to fill the needs.”

Liz LaRose, president of the Monadnock United Way, said she’s also seeing signs of an increase in need.

A big part of the organization’s fundraising comes from workplace giving campaigns, in which employees can choose to donate a little bit of each paycheck. Some of those employers have been asking the Monadnock United Way to connect their employees with information about food assistance and other resources.

“Folks who are coming up to talk to us [during workplace presentations] will ask about, you know, where they can go for a pantry or where they can get other services,” she said.

LaRose said some people who would normally give a dollar or two per paycheck can’t do so right now, which is understandable. People who give to the Monadnock United Way in good times, she said, should know they can also ask for help when things get tough.

“Sometimes you put into the pot — meaning they’re giving through a campaign — and sometimes you have to take from that same pot,” she said.

LaRose said the organization is nonetheless on track to meet its year-end fundraising goal of $1.5 million. Workplace raffles have been doing well, because some people who can’t commit to ongoing contributions are still able to give a few dollars here or there.

“We are also seeing that individuals who are able to give have been increasing their gifts, and that is super heartwarming,” she said. “I think people recognize that there are folks who are struggling, this year in particular, to make ends meet. And so those folks have been stepping up.”

LaRose said around 30 percent of its donations for the year typically come in December.

“A lot of people wait until the end of the month to write their checks, and many campaigns run up until the end of December,” she said. “So right now we are on track, and it’s more important than ever for our community to help out and help those who are in need.”

The Community Kitchen in Keene also receives a significant portion of its donations toward the end of the year, said Executive Director Barb Weisman.

“I think people’s minds naturally go there as we prepare for Thanksgiving and our bounty,” she said. “People generally start to think about helping others around food insecurity.”

Weisman said the food pantry saw a spike in need around early November, as SNAP benefits lapsed during the government shutdown. In a short period, their weekly food pantry went from serving around 350 families per week to around 480. They also held a one-time emergency distribution in partnership with the N.H. Food Bank and N.H. Department of Health and Human Services that served about 750 individuals. The organization also saw an earlier-than-usual increase in donations around that time.

“This community is really tuned in and keeps an ear to what’s going on and where the need is, and when that was heavily in the news cycle, I think we saw, really, an uptick,” she said.

Weisman said that included some first-time donors as well as people who likely moved up their planned end-of-year donations. Though giving has since tapered off somewhat, “it’s a good, solid year for us,” she said.

While food donations are helpful, Weisman said the best thing people can give is money. Because the organization buys food in bulk, it can make those dollars go further than private shoppers; it also needs funds to keep the lights on.

As important as end-of-year giving is, Weisman noted the organization relies on private donations to run year-round.

“Anybody who’s experiencing food insecurity today is going to have that same issue at the end of January when it’s super cold out and … folks are having to make decisions between heating their homes or buying food. And what we want to say is, ‘Heat your home. Pay your rent. Stay in your home. Come see us, we’ll help with the food.’ ”

Meanwhile, at Feeding Tiny Tummies, Dassau said they’re working hard to help as many families as possible, even if it’s just a small toy or stocking stuffer. They have some items left over from last year, and she’s optimistic more donations will come in.

Like Weisman, she said monetary donations are always helpful because they can buy exactly what they need, but they also need gifts for children ages 10 and up.

“It’s much harder, but we’re making it work,” she said. “We’ve got a great community, and we’ve still got some things trickling in.”

People seeking non-emergency assistance with food, housing, fuel or other services can call 211 to be connected with resources.
