Up-and-coming Keene artist captures the weird and way-out

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/up-and-coming-keene-nh-photographer-captures-the-weird-and-way-out/article_cb0c557b-bf90-4006-9c1f-c50fc4f5897a.html

They say one man’s trash is another’s man’s treasure. For Lola Duenyas, it could be a prop in her next photo shoot.

Duenyas, a 23-year-old Keene resident, delights in coming across items in garage sales or piles of free objects left on curbs, which she uses in her photography.

Her finds run the gamut. She’s repurposed an abandoned iMac, and found a way to put a 55-gallon fish tank to use, filling it up and photographing her and her friends squeezing themselves inside.

For Duenyas, digital photography is a gateway into filmmaking, a longtime aspiration of hers: She tries to capture scenes and tell stories in just one frame, she said.

But that’s just one of her artistic pursuits. She also dabbles in painting and drawing, and her work has been featured on the cans of the now-defunct Swanzey brewer West LA Beer Co., as well as in local restaurants and art shows. She even had a hand in the most recent Ken Burns documentary about American history that’s receiving nationwide attention.

Her subjects are wide-ranging, but follow a common thread — they often depict the surreal and off-kilter. Disembodied hands extending from a swimming pool and plunking away at a computer keyboard. Portraits of the female body with distorted proportions and coloration. A recent work depicts a scene from her favorite true crime podcast, in which a man hallucinates eyeballs on his wife’s body where they should not be.

“I always think the weirder, the better,” Duenyas said. “It’s just more interesting to look at.”

Recently, Duenyas found an old box TV, which she used to set up a scene in her parents’ barn.

“I sat in front of it, lit a cigarette, and we filmed it with the cool window lighting in the barn,” she said.

She was drawn to the eerie blue lighting and static the TV emits when turned on with no input, she said.

“I’ve been doing little things like that, where it’s a very quick, short idea,” she said, “something that doesn’t take a lot of shooting knowledge, not a lot of editing knowledge just to teach myself more the basics and those things.”

Finding a unique style

Duenyas, who lived in California for part of her childhood, found her creative calling in art class at San Marin High School in Novato, which is about 30 miles north of San Francisco, per Google Maps.

“I was always in the art room,” she said. “[Art has] always been the main outlet that I’ve had, and I’ve pretty much taught myself most of it.”

However, Duenyas credits her high school art teacher Jennifer Norman for helping her come into her own artistically.

“She definitely was big in helping me create what I wanted to create, and [taught me] not to think too hard about it,” Duenyas said. “Her classroom definitely gave me a lot of room to create a kind of artistic expression of my own.”

Duenyas and her family moved to Keene in 2021, which she described as “a better fit for them.” She said the COVID-19 pandemic and fire season in California pushed the family to move.

While she enjoys art in general, Duenyas said her main draw has always been film. She wanted to be an actress when she was young, but has since moved on from that career interest. She would still like to find a job in the industry, though.

Movies are Duenyas’ “saving grace,” she said. Her favorite flicks are always changing, but recently included Greta Gerwig’s “Call Me By Your Name,” Christopher Nolan’s “Interstellar,” Jordan Peele’s “Get Out” and anything from the Japanese animation company Studio Ghibli.

“Sometimes I go to the movie theater by myself when I need to calm down or if I need to remove myself from my own reality,” she said. “It’s a safe space for me.”

In 2024, Duenyas spent a semester at Kutztown University in Pennsylvania studying studio art. The experience was sometimes lonely — her roommate was rarely around — but Duenyas used her time alone to foster a new passion.

“I had my dad’s camera, and I was trying to do film stuff, but I was getting really frustrated not knowing how to do everything, and nothing was turning out how I wanted it to,” she said.

Then, Duenyas said she decided to take a step back and give photography a whirl. She tried focusing on creating a single scene or a moment rather than moving pictures, and experimented with adding or moving elements to make the image more engaging.

“It was a lonely time, but it definitely sparked a lot of creativity.”

Pursuing art in the Monadnock Region

That creative spark continues to burn. Now with her own Sony A7 at her side, Duenyas is still telling stories through pictures, honing her skills in composition and lighting in the Monadnock Region.

While shooting scenes using roadside detritus, Duenyas also photographs local bands and musical acts. Last summer, she filmed a promotional video for Kate Weber and Sophia Norman, a Nashville-based musical duo with Keene roots, before they performed at Brewbakers in Keene.

Her art in general has populated many a wall and window in the Keene area. A few years ago, some of Duenyas’ work was displayed at the West LA Beer Co. in Swanzey, and that opportunity turned into her art being featured on a couple of the company’s labels. In 2022, the “Serendipity” can was adorned with a headphones-wearing crying angel bordered by blue flames. A few months later, Duenyas illustrated a naked woman covered in liquid, her head and neck corkscrewed to look the viewer in the eye for the “Twisted” can.

Duenyas’ hand also illustrated billboard art for Little Zoe’s Pizza in Keene, she said. Some of her pieces were also featured in the Elm City’s Art Walk this past summer, and hung in Luca’s Mediterranean Café while it was still open.

Brian Lee, a family friend of Duenyas’ and a visual artist in his own right, said Duenyas is very talented, especially for her age. There are a few paintings of hers — in which the subject’s facial features seem to meld together in one jumbled mass — that stand out to Lee in particular, he said. To him, they evoke the grotesque, magical realism of artists like Frida Kahlo, with memorable use of color and shape.

“She’s very fearless when it comes to those details,” he said.

Lee, a Keene resident who works for Florentine Films, the studio behind Ken Burns’ historical documentaries, said Duenyas’ proficiency in sequential art, painting, drawing and digital software makes her an asset in the industry. She interned with Lee, using her Photoshop skills to help him prepare animated versions of archival maps used in Burns’ most recent film, “The American Revolution.”

“One of Lola’s greatest strengths is having an idea, putting it to paper and finishing it,” Lee said. “A lot of young people get bogged down in perfectionism ... she doesn’t.”

Recently, Duenyas finished a short film called “Through Her Lense” that she shot over two days in Barcelona, Spain, she said. The flick is available on her Facebook, Instagram and TikTok.
