Keene Outlines Winter Parking Ban Rules As First Snow Approaches

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-keene-outlines-winter-parking-ban-rules-as-first-snow-approaches/

Keene officials are urging residents to prepare for rotating winter parking bans and to use designated lots when overnight street parking is restricted.

KEENE, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) As Keene readies for the season’s first significant snowfall, city officials are reminding residents that winter parking restrictions will go into effect whenever storms threaten road conditions.

The Public Works Department said the city’s Winter Weather Parking Ban will be announced at least six hours before it begins. Once a ban is declared, overnight parking on city streets and in on-street public spaces is prohibited so plow crews can clear snow efficiently.

To help drivers relocate their vehicles, the city will open select municipal parking lots for overnight use. Because each lot must be cleared on a rotating basis, the list of available locations changes night to night. Officials urged residents to double-check lot signage to avoid parking in reserved spaces, which could result in fines or towing.

Residents can expect to receive parking ban alerts through email, text messages, social media, the city’s winter weather webpage, and digital roadside signs. Each notice will specify the start time of the ban and provide links to maps showing alternative parking locations.

City officials encourage residents to review all winter parking rules and sign up for notifications at KeeneNH.gov/Snow .

Nicole Colson is the editor-in-chief of MyKeeneNow. She can be reached at 603-352-9230, X-322.

Keene ombudsman George Downing tells WKBK he’s working to meet every downtown stakeholder ahead of the city’s two-year rebuild.

Keene officials are urging residents to prepare for rotating winter parking bans and to use designated lots when overnight street parking is restricted.

Rindge police are investigating a string of road-sign vandalisms that pose safety concerns and could leave taxpayers footing replacement costs.

A potentially significant winter storm Tuesday could drop more than six inches of snow and disrupt travel across Maine and New Hampshire.

Keene woman Kelli Tedford sentenced for urinating on food at a grocery store and hotel property
