St. Albans businesses see boost on Small Business Saturday

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-11-30
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/11/30/st-albans-businesses-see-boost-small-business-saturday/

ST. ALBANS, Vt. (WCAX) - Small Business Saturday brought increased foot traffic to local stores in St. Albans, with business owners reporting busy sales.

“A lot of people didn’t know I was here so I’m like oh this is good and they said they’ll be back so very busy,” said Chelsey Howard, owner of Thirsty Thrifters.

Local business owners say the community support helps keep money circulating within St. Albans while allowing them to give back to local organizations.

“It’s nice that the community’s hard owned money is kept in the community so we’re also able to give back and support local and give gift cards to those who need it we can sponsor things which is nice,” said Jennah Branon, owner of Little Little, a baby and toddler store.

Little Little has been open for two years, and Branon said foot traffic continues to increase, which benefits the entire downtown area.

“Tourists or locals have more places to go to, kind of pop into, and spend a longer day they can go and shop, have lunch, go out and shop a few more stores,” Branon said.

Business owners emphasize that local stores contribute to community organizations in ways that larger retailers do not.

“They don’t support the little league in your community they don’t support the band that wants to go to Washington D.C. We’re all the ones that put back into our local community that supports the girl scouts and the boy scouts and the different organizations so we need your support too,” said Donna Howard, owner of The Eloquent Page.

The Eloquent Page bookstore has operated in its current location for over 30 years.

Customers say shopping locally creates personal relationships that online shopping cannot provide.

“I do remember that that store once I was looking for something that they were out of and she said ‘oh I’ll call you whenever we get it in again’ and she did,” said Julie Curtis of St. Albans.

“You can sit and do Amazon which is fine but this you’re talking to people and getting to know people and people recognize and especially you in St. Albans people recognize you and you can start a relationship,” said Brittany Twombly of Milton.

Kenzie Riley of St. Albans said local shopping fits the holiday spirit.

“Especially for this season they can buy gifts for their family and I think it’s really nice,” Riley said.
