Ben & Jerry’s non-profit foundation joins lawsuit against Magnum

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-23
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/ben-jerry-s-non-profit-foundation-joins-lawsuit-against-magnum/article_cfa1351c-47f2-44d6-b5b0-826e3b0fc0ba.html

GRAFTON — The president of the Ben & Jerry’s Foundation, which has been accused of governance and financial control issues, is striking back at Magnum, the company that Unilever recently spun-off to control its ice cream brands.

“For months, Unilever/Magnum has withheld critical information, sought to undermine the foundation’s independence, and withheld required funding,” said Liz Bankowski, president of the Foundation’s board of trustees.

Bankowski, who lives in Grafton and has been a member of the trustees since 1994, said the foundation is intervening in the Ben & Jerry’s Independent Board lawsuit against Unilever/Magnum, currently pending in the Federal Court of the Southern District of New York.

That action seeks to compel Unilever/Magnum to honor its binding obligations under the original acquisition agreement, which include funding the foundation, and to cease efforts that interfere with the brand’s social mission and the independent governance of Ben and Jerry’s and the Foundation.

“The Ben & Jerry’s Foundation stands with grassroots movements advancing racial justice, climate action, immigrant and workers’ rights, and LGBTQ+ dignity,” stated Bankowski in a news release announcing the intervention. “The foundation was deliberately structured to remain independent from corporate control, ensuring that community-led justice work could thrive free from political or corporate interference.”

Bankowski was first elected to the Ben & Jerry’s Board of Directors in 1990 and became the company’s first director of social mission development. Bankowski is also a trustee of The Windham Foundation, which owns the Grafton Village Cheese Company, and The High Meadows Fund.

This conflict follows years of friction between the brand and Unilever over the brand's activism, particularly its stance on the Israeli-occupied West Bank.

Bankowski stated that Unilever/Magnum has fabricated “a false narrative of dysfunction using bogus claims to justify extraordinary, impermissible attempts to seize control of the foundation.”

Regular audits have never identified problems with misuse of funds or fiscal mismanagement, states the news release.

“The foundation’s independence enables it to stand unequivocally with communities that lack power,” wrote Bankowski. “Like so many of our grantees, we now find ourselves in a David-vs-Goliath fight. We are a $6 million foundation confronting a $7 billion corporation determined to exert control it is not entitled to. We will not be intimidated.”

“In our experience, the best organizations embrace transparency, particularly when it comes to financial accounting,” states a message from Bhattacharya Abhijit, the chief ice cream finance officer at Unilever to the foundation’s board in May, addressing a refusal by the foundation’s board to submit to an audit conducted by Forensic Risk Alliance, a London-based firm that helps clients “identify, analyze, and mitigate the risks associated with international regulatory compliance obligations, litigation, internal and external multi-jurisdictional investigations.”

“Those that resist an examination of accounts have a troubling history of hiding information,” wrote Abhijit. “We hope that is not the case here.”

In a response to the CFOs message, Jeff Furman, trustee of the Ben & Jerry's Foundation and emeritus board member of Ben & Jerry's, said the foundation has never in a 25-year period submitted to “a routine audit” and that the timing of the audit was “suspicious.”

“Your total blame on us is hard to take,” wrote Furman. “The Ben & Jerry's Foundation has an amazing, wonderful reputation, a wonderful staff and a unique way of working with employees.”

Sources told Reuters that the audit did not find any wrongdoing or discrepancies.

Last week, Anuradha Mittal, who chaired Ben & Jerry's independent board, which is separate from the foundation’s board, for seven years, was ousted by Magnum, which said Mittal "no longer met the criteria to serve" on the board, following an investigation it had commissioned by external advisors.

"For several years now, we have been resisting their overreach, including their efforts to muzzle us from speaking out for human rights, for peace," MIttal told BBC's World Business Report.

Mittal also accused Unilever-Magnum executives of threatening her with defamatory statements if she did not resign.

"At the same time, they offered me a prominent role in a multimillion dollar Unilever-funded non-profit if I gave in," she said, adding she had turned down that "inappropriate" offer.

Two other board members, Jennifer Henderson and Daryn Dodson, were also removed.
