Interim zoning on social services seeks to avoid 'outside spillover effects'

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-23
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/interim-zoning-on-social-services-seeks-to-avoid-outside-spillover-effects/article_b7bea381-f5a4-4d58-b828-82aa1e9bc87d.html

BRATTLEBORO — Following a public hearing on Monday, the Select Board voted 3-2 to adopt an interim zoning bylaw triggered by concerns about 69A.

“Social Services or Charitable Assistance” in the town's zoning will be moved from a permitted to conditional use in the Urban Center, Village Center, Neighborhood Center, Mixed Use and Institutional Zoning districts, meaning the Brattleboro Development Review Board will need to consider permit applications in a public meeting. The purpose is to protect "public safety, health, and general welfare and to provide for orderly physical and economic growth," according to a memo by town staff.

The idea came in response to issues reported at 69A Elliot St., where unhoused community members congregated and received resources. Earlier this month, 69A moved to the building formerly housing a cafe known as Restless Rooster on Elliot Street.

BRATTLEBORO — 69A is moving to a bigger spot.

On Dec. 8, the Select Board voted 3-2 to hold a public hearing on the interim zoning bylaw and map.

"Interim bylaws are a form of emergency action that can be enacted by the Select Board after one hearing and go into effect immediately," the memo states. "Interim bylaws typically last for a period of two years, unless renewed or adopted through the standard process."

Interim zoning bylaws are authorized under state law and have been adopted by the town before. The board can repeal them after a public hearing. A petition signed by 5 percent of the legal voters also can trigger a public hearing to consider an amendment or repeal.

The DRB considers "compatibility with surrounding properties," according to the memo, and "certain standards must be met in order to grant a Conditional Use Permit."

"The burden of proof is on the applicant to provide evidence to demonstrate that the proposed land use can coexist in harmony with the neighborhood and meet all of the required standards," the memo states.

A proposal in which conditional use is required "may be denied if it fails to meet the criteria," according to the memo, and the DRB can place "conditions on any approval in order to ensure that the use is compatible and does not create unreasonable impacts."

BRATTLEBORO — Following concerns about 69A, a public hearing will gather input on changing the town's permitting process for social assistance and charitable service uses.

The town recorded 136 contacts regarding 69A from the end of April through the end of November, and 92 police calls and 18 fire/EMS calls during that time period, according to a summary. Altogether, the responses are estimated to have cost the town about $51,500.

Complaints involved trespassing, overdoses, welfare/suicide checks, injuries, disorderly conduct, wanted person, loitering, suspicious person/circumstance, intoxicated person and simple assault. Questions about how complaints were addressed or resolved and happened at other properties came up at the public hearing.

The town received 10 written complaints from residents, according to the summary. The town also received an "untallied number of verbal complaints."

"As a downtown resident, and as a parent, I am concerned about the safety and well-being of those who live here, especially our children and our elderly neighbors — many of whom pass this location regularly to access downtown services," an email to the town states. "If this location is contributing to illegal activity or placing additional strain on our already overstretched police department, I believe it is appropriate for the town as a whole to weigh in. We need transparency and community input on whether this space is serving Brattleboro in a safe and constructive way."

69A coordinators held an open house in July, describing its project in an invitation as "a new community run space that provides meals, clothing, camping supplies, a place to rest, conversation, music, and art making."

"We have become even more vital in town as the motel program has ended and there are many more people without a place to call home," the invitation states. "We are receiving so many donations and are so grateful!"

Board member Isaac Evans-Frantz and Board Vice Chairman Oscar Heller voted against the interim zoning.

About 25 of the 30 meeting attendees spoke in opposition to the motion or the bylaw itself, Evans-Frantz told the Reformer. He said he proposed postponing the decision until the end of March or some time in April, as 69A recently moved to a bigger space away from public sidewalks and the more commercial area.

Evans Frantz also supported the Planning Commission's call to defer action until it could discuss the proposal and weigh in on it next month. He noted there were concerns from the public about whether there was truly an emergency warranting the bylaw, and about having the public hearing during Hanukkah, Christmas week and solstice.

"The use of 'an emergency' to justify this interim bylaw is awkward at best," Bob Oeser of Brattleboro said in remarks shared with the Reformer. "One of the arguments for the use of an 'emergency' was that it was used in the past for housing … to make building housing easier. That is exactly the opposite of what is proposed here."

Oeser said the board "may hear arguments."

"But if you hear allegations, be cautious because you are being denied knowing all the truth and substance," he said. "The devil is always in the details. And the bottom line is that an interim bylaw should not be based on allegations about one entity."

Board Chairwoman Elizabeth McLoughlin called the information prepared by town staff "very compelling."

"It talked about how the example of 69A and all the disruption and fighting out on the street prompted the town government to act to protect the downtown from future disruption," she told the Reformer. "The packet documented how all the requests the town and the Downtown Brattleboro Alliance made to meet with the management of 69A to reconcile these disturbances were refused. With few levers to pull, this led to the suggestion of an interim bylaw to reduce the likelihood of conflicts with neighbors in the future."

McLoughlin described the bylaw as a "planning tool" and "an aid to social assistance groups, as it allows for a conversation to understand the responsibility for a well-run facility without outside spillover effects."

"In other words, far from prohibiting this use, the town’s aim is to make this use work better within its neighbors, to be better neighbors," she said. "It was mentioned in the discussion last night, and it’s true, that social services and shopkeepers can coexist together in this space, but there needs to be a concerted effort and willingness to make that happen. This conditional use bylaw gives some small amount of leverage to help make that conversation happen."

McLoughlin said she's "confident that the planning staff and [DRB] process will work with the leadership at 69A in its new location to provide services to the community in ways that minimize neighborhood disruption."

"The Planning Commission can study this action and report to the Select Board of its findings during this interim period and before anything is made permanent," she said. "It is my hope that this social assistance and charitable service use, the downtown, and the town of Brattleboro will be well served from this action the Select Board needed to take for our town to work together and thrive."
