Rockingham gets state historic grant for town hall plaster, clock repairs

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-23
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/rockingham-gets-state-historic-grant-for-town-hall-plaster-clock-repairs/article_70ba7e92-1d10-415e-b248-db43ea2d6572.html

BELLOWS FALLS — The town of Rockingham has received a state historic preservation grant, and it will use the grant toward plaster and clock repairs at the 1926 town hall.

The town received $20,000 toward the plaster restoration and repairs to the stalled town hall clock, according to Caitlin Corkins, the grants coordinator for the state Division for Historic Preservation.

Town Manager Scott Pickup announced the grant Monday night during a Rockingham Select Board meeting. The town received the maximum amount under the grant program.

Pickup said the money would be used toward repairing the plaster in the Bellows Falls Opera House, as well as the administrative offices in the town hall, including the manager's office and finance office.

The plaster was damaged over several years and was all traced back to leaks from the town hall's faulty roof and plugged roof drains. The roof and its drainage system are currently being replaced by Triumph Roofing of Baldwinville, Mass., at a cost of $619,000. Voters approved a $525,000 bond in October to pay for the major of the roof project.

The total cost of the plaster job could go as high as $100,000, Development Director Gary Fox told the board, but he said that estimate was made  before the town's formal  bidding process.

Pickup said previously that the town's insurance would cover most of the cost of the plaster repair.

The high cost of the repair is in part due to the need for scaffolding to complete the project, Pickup said. The scaffolding is needed due to the high ceilings in the Opera House and the third floor meeting room.

The plaster damage has been accumulating as the town worked toward getting the roof repaired or replaced, the grant application stated. Work on the new roof began about a month ago after several delays.

Pickup told the board that the project was about a third completed, and after a Christmas break, the construction crew would be back next week to tackle a new section of roof.

The town's grant application, which was submitted in early October, also asked for $1,250 toward repairing the town hall clock, which has been stuck at 10:30 for the past several months. As a condition of the grant, the town will match the $20,000.

The town's grant application noted that it was waiting for several months for a man who repairs historic clocks, and who last worked on the town hall clock in 2022.

Phil Davanza restored the clock 30 years ago, the application noted.

Much of the clock works is original to the building of the town hall.

Rockingham and its various organizations have received several state historic grants in recent years.

A year ago, Rockingham for Progress, a local non-profit, received a $20,000 historic preservation grant toward the preservation of the Miss Bellows Falls Diner. And a few years before that, the Bellows Falls Historical Society received $20,000 toward a new roof at the society-owned Adams Grist Mill.

The town has been working on repairing and restoring different aspects of the town hall, which replaced an earlier building which burned in 1925.

The town has worked on various restoration projects at the town hall, including restoring its large windows. Illness of the contractor halted the completion of the project.

Contact Susan Smallheer at ssmallheer@reformer.com.
