ICE arrests woman with family ties to White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-11-29
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/woman-ice-arrest-connected-to-karoline-leavitt/69549193

The mother of White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt's nephew is currently in Immigration and Customs Enforcement custody, after she was arrested for overstaying her visa by 26 years, a source familiar with the matter confirms to WMUR.

A source told News 9 that Bruna Caroline Ferreira was taken into custody in Revere, Massachusetts. She is currently being held at the South Louisiana ICE Processing Center, according to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

Karoline Leavitt's brother, Michael Leavitt, declined to speak on camera Tuesday night, citing concerns for his son's privacy. He spoke to News 9 with his wife and two sons on their front steps.

He said his biggest concern is his son's safety and well-being following the arrest.

According to Michael Leavitt, his son has lived with him in New Hampshire since he was born. While the boy lives with his father and stepmother, Ferreira has maintained a relationship with her son, Michael Leavitt said.

His son has not spoken to his mother since she was detained in ICE custody a few weeks ago, he confirmed.

He added that this is a difficult situation and he just wants the best for his son. Michael Leavitt said that his wife has also been a big support to his son.

According to DHS, Ferreira, who is originally from Brazil, entered the U.S. on a B2 tourist visa that required her to depart by June 6, 1999. She is currently in removal proceedings. DHS also said Ferreira had a previous arrest for battery.

However, Todd Pomerleau, Ferreira's attorney, insists she came to the U.S. legally as a child, and stayed under DACA. He said she is in the process of getting her green card.

"Bruna has no criminal record whatsoever. I don't know where that is coming from. Show us the proof. There's no charges out there. She's not a criminal, illegal alien, we're hearing that said about anyone who's not a U.S. citizen,"  Pomerleau said.

Pomerleau said Ferreira is a good mom, and he's fighting to get her out of custody.

"I'm just trying to fight to get her out of jail. She should not be sitting in a jail hours away from her family and from her child's life. She's a great mom, and from what I heard, I think he's been a pretty good dad," he said.

Pomerleau agrees with Michael Leavitt that his and Ferreira's son shouldn't be caught in.

"His mother is locked up in Louisiana, where she should have never been in the first place," Pomerleau said.

Karoline Leavitt, a New Hampshire native from Atkinson, was appointed White House press secretary by President Donald Trump in November 2024 . A source said that Karoline Leavitt has not spoken to Ferreira in many years.

When asked about the arrest, Karoline Leavitt told News 9 that she has no comment.
