Paula Marks: Artificial intelligence vigilance is sorely needed

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/20/paula-marks-artificial-intelligence-vigilance-is-sorely-needed/

Commentaries are opinion pieces contributed by readers and newsmakers. VTDigger strives to publish a variety of views from a broad range of Vermonters. Commentaries give voice to community members and do not represent VTDigger’s views. To submit a commentary, follow the instructions here .

This commentary is by Paula Marks, of Guilford. She is a retired American Studies professor.

AI has not crept but crashed into our lives, and it has its benefits. Yet there are three big reasons we should be wary of how it is being developed, and how quickly.

First, while AI can provide a good summary or outline on a topic or a welcome reassuring presence, it also can present fiction as fact or as garbled and simply weird when it takes on a topic or a relationship. For example, those relying on ChatGPT for medical advice run into its contradictions and misinformation, and some of those who use it for companionship have found it can take a dark turn.

Second, President Trump recently signed an executive order to empower the federal government to challenge any state-generated AI laws it deems “onerous or excessive.” This should raise red flags, especially since the tech bros, or “broligarchs,” who engage in AI initiatives are aligned with Trump’s agenda.

Third, AI has turbo-charged the proliferation of data centers ( more than 600 in Virginia alone and growing, according to a July 2025 report). These massive centers suck up water and electricity in vast amounts, often with unproven water-savings schemes, in drought-prone areas and without real oversight. Many communities have been forced to accept these intrusive, noisy, polluting, resource-draining behemoths.

One might ask whether data centers at least bring economic opportunities to these residents in terms of jobs. Let’s let AI itself respond: “AI data centers employ surprisingly few people directly for operations, typically dozens to a few hundred per large facility.”

Further, the billions of dollars tech bros, corporations and their investors are pouring into the centers are potentially destabilizing our already damaged U.S. economy, creating a worrying financial bubble. Meanwhile, growing dependence on AI keeps stretching water and electricity resources in communities and in the U.S. as a whole.

What does this all mean for Vermonters? Our state government has tried to anticipate AI proliferation and was the first in the nation to create a division focused on AI ethics and implementation. But the changes and challenges are coming quickly. Here’s what you can do now:

Ask for more, because Vermont has the power to act where Congress has failed.

Vermont’s experience integrating 650 allies who risked their lives for America contradicts harmful rhetoric painting them as security risks and economic drains.

Done well, transformation does not weaken a hospital. It ensures its success.
