Chaunce Benedict: The school redistricting task force did indeed fail

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/01/chaunce-benedict-the-school-redistricting-task-force-did-indeed-fail/

Letters to the editor are brief reader responses to stories and opinion pieces published by VTDigger. Letters give voice to community members and do not represent VTDigger’s views. To submit a letter, follow the instructions here .

Dear Editor,

Whether one thinks school district consolidations or mergers would be beneficial for Vermont or not is immaterial in regard to the fundamental issue raised by the Vermont school redistricting task force’s move to thwart the intent and requirements of Vermont law concerning the future of our pre-K-12 schools.

The task force has grossly abused its privilege as an appointed policy group by deciding to, essentially, disobey the law and thwart the process that our elected representatives designed for school reform.

Our elected Legislature and governor, with much research and then debate, set a policy direction for Vermont school governance, operations and finance. It is not in any way the prerogative of this small group to take it upon themselves to thwart the process set forth in law for reorganizing our educational system.

That thousands of people who purportedly came forth to voice concern or opposition to the law, is transparently the result of organized, concerted political activism.

While it is important to listen to and respect voices of concern, there is no reason per se to think that this is a “groundswell” representing the overall will of Vermonters as a whole. In fact, our 2025 Vermont Legislature and governor duly elected by Vermont citizens, set this policy into law.

The Task Force, as well as “anti-merger” activists, in six months of activity, have generated through these actions an undue, large amount of worry, fear and anxiety over the idea of changing the way we do schooling.

As well, the task force itself has demonstrated a shockingly myopic narrow-mindedness regarding research on school reorganization and reform and organizational change — and also a  stunning lack of respect for the will of Vermonters, who have said that the status quo of our schools — educationally and financially — is no longer working and needs dramatic change, very soon.

Chaunce Benedict

Swanton

It is not in any way the prerogative of this small group to take it upon themselves to thwart the process set forth in law for reorganizing our educational system.

It is not just about technology; it’s about meeting people where they are and supporting them in ways that make sense for their lives.

Our strength lies in our unity, whether on the picket line, at the bargaining table or in the halls of government. We are one movement fighting for justice for all.

Have something to say? Submit a letter to the editor here .
