'I'm ready for this movie to be over': Nashua mom speaks after plane crashed into her home

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/nashua-homeowner-speaks-after-plane-crash-12212025/69831546

A Nashua woman and her 16-year-old son were displaced Wednesday afternoon after a small plane crashed into their home.

Wendy Carlstrom said she was working remotely when she heard what she described as the loudest noise she had ever heard.

"I thought maybe a bomb went off.  I had no idea what to think," she told News 9 in an exclusive interview.

Carlstrom said the impact felt like she had fallen about six inches, similar to the sensation of an elevator dropping unexpectedly.

"I'm expecting to see a truck sticking out of my garage. I thought maybe somebody backed into my house somehow," she said.  "Instead, I look out the window, and I see the airplane upside down and on top of the car next to mine."

Shortly after 2 p.m., a Velocity V-Twin plane that had taken off from Nashua Airport clipped the roof of her son's bedroom , landing upside down near a parking lot.

She called 911 and frantically ran out of her house around the same time bystanders helped the pilot, who was the only person on board, get out of the plane. He was taken to the hospital.

Carlstrom said she is grateful that she and her son were not physically hurt, but the two are still trying to process how quickly their lives changed.

"It just seems unreal," Carlstrom said. "It's even that day, it felt like I was watching a movie of somebody else's life. I actually said that more than once. I said, 'I'm ready for this movie to be over. I'm ready to turn it off.' It didn't feel like I was living my life."

Aside from the holes in the roof, the house has cracks and structural damage extending from the third floor down into the basement.

Carlstrom and her son are now staying with family because the home is too severely damaged to occupy.

"It's really difficult. He lost his home. He lost all of his belongings. He, you know, his place to sleep, his place to hang out," she told News 9.

The Nashua mother credits her time in the military for being able to remain calm under pressure.

"I'm an Army veteran, so I've been through some stuff myself before this," she said.  "I'm going to help my son. He needs me to be strong as much as anything else. So, I put one foot in front of the other, and drink water and drive on. We said that all the time. That's it's a military thing."

Carlstrom said she was told it could take six months to a year before they are able to return.
