Food, festive decor among ways hospitals channel Christmas spirit

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-23
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/cheshire-medical-center-monadnock-community-hospital-brighten-holidays-for-patients/article_7287802c-6a68-48f2-9cb7-bf2a87b2b0e4.html

The holidays are supposed to be a time of festivity and cheer, of good food and time spent with family. But if you or a loved one is hospitalized at this time of year, Christmas can be a lot harder.

It’s something that health care workers in the Monadnock Region’s hospitals say they keep in mind as they care for patients, doing whatever they can to brighten their days with a little Christmas cheer.

“No one wants to be sick during the holidays or be in the hospital,” said Jessica Savageau, a licensed nursing assistant at Cheshire Medical Center in Keene. “So we really try to bring any holiday cheer that we can with that in mind. It’s not the most cheery place in the world, so we try to bring that when we can.”

Costumes, decorations, food and company are among the hallmarks of the holidays at both Cheshire Medical Center and Monadnock Community Hospital in Peterborough. (All while following infection prevention and safety guidelines, Savageau clarifies.)

At Cheshire’s medical surgical inpatient unit, one of the nursing staff’s favorite things to do is get dressed up. “We love to wear silly themed shirts,” Savageau said. “Some people wear ugly Christmas sweaters. Any kind of headbands or earrings.”

Staff have also decorated the unit for visitors and patients with a Christmas tree and lights. Sometimes, the hospital has had someone dressed as Santa come in and give out candy, at least to the patients who can have it.

Food “is usually everybody’s favorite part,” she said, with Christmas meals served at Cheshire typically featuring things like ham or prime rib.

Patients seem to love the extra effort the staff put in on Christmas, she said. The vibe gets fun and a little silly. Savageau usually works the night shift, so sometimes right at midnight she’ll change into her holiday gear. “That gets a lot of laughs,” she said.

Staff also try to make sure patients have human connection during the holiday.

“We really encourage visitors and family members to come in, but not every patient has people that will come in and see them,” she said.

In those cases, she said, staff will sit and talk with the patients themselves.

“Last Christmas, I remember sitting down with a patient who didn’t have any family members to come and see them,” she said. “And I’m really grateful that I had the time and opportunity to sit down and talk with her and just really just spend some time with her and just listen to her, and she told me about some Christmas traditions in the past.”

At Monadnock Community Hospital, the preparations start in early December, with staff putting up decorations to make it feel more festive, said Kaitlyn Priest, director of the hospital’s medical surgical and intermediate care unit.

“So as patients are getting admitted and rolling through the unit, getting to their room, they kind of go through all of the decorations,” she said.

Throughout the month, staff will wear scrubs with festive colors or holiday-themed prints. It’s not just the medical staff who like dressing up.

“We had a dietary aide come to the unit today to take people’s orders for lunch, dressed in a full blow-up gingerbread man costume,” she said Thursday. “And the patients loved it.”

Things like that help liven up the mood and lift people’s spirits, she said. In the past, Girl Scout troops have come to the unit to sing Christmas carols.

On the day itself, they’ll have music playing at the nurses’ station. Staff will bring patients who are able to leave their rooms on a walk around the unit, to see the decorations. The menu for the Christmas Day meal is printed specially, to look like it’s from a restaurant. This year’s fare is prime rib, mashed potatoes, roasted carrots and an assortment of desserts.

The unit’s staff have to be good at reading people. Some patients want a festive meal with visiting friends or family, and Priest said staff will pitch in to make sure it’s a jolly occasion. Others want to pretend like it’s not a holiday at all. “For those patients, staff will really tone it down and kind of act like it’s any other day,” she said.

Sometimes, they’ll have a patient who’s been on the unit a long time and can’t be discharged because they don’t have friends or family in the area. Staff go “above and beyond” to cheer those patients up during the holidays, Priest said.

“We’ve gotten them stockings for their rooms before, and then staff will usually chip in to get them a few small gifts so that they have something to open on Christmas as well,” she said.

One patient last year, for example, used to love working on cars. The staff got him a calendar with photos of old-school cars and engines, as well as a pair of socks with cars on them. For other patients, they’ve gotten things like puzzles, books and materials for arts and crafts.

Priest recalls one Christmas when a long-term patient happened to be the only one on the unit that day. They brought her out to the nursing station, where the staff had wrapped some gifts for her and arranged them under a small Christmas tree. Staff ate lunch and dinner with her.

“Her joy was just — it was a wonderful experience,” Priest said. “It was one of those days that you go home at the end of your shift and you’re like, ‘This was a great day. This is why I became a nurse.’ ”

Priest said she and her colleagues aren’t put out by working over the holidays.

“People might think that because staff are missing their holiday with their loved ones, that it might be an uncomfortable situation,” she said. “But it’s the complete opposite. All of the staff who work here do this job because they genuinely love it and they’re OK with spending their holidays taking care of their patients.”
