Nursing assistant at Elliot Hospital accused of sexually assaulting child at hospital

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-09
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/manchester-new-hampshire-alexander-colbath-arrest/69664505

A nursing assistant accused of sexually assaulting a child at Elliot Hospital was arrested late last week.

Alexander Colbath, 25, faces a charge of aggravated felonious sexual assault. The Manchester Police Department says he was arrested on Friday, days after he allegedly assaulted an 8-year-old child who was receiving treatment at the hospital after a recent surgery.

According to court documents, the child reported what she said happened to her mother, who went on to inform hospital staff before they told police.

The child claimed that upon entering her room, Colbath told her he was going to look at an incision in her groin area, one of three regions affected by her procedure. Documents say she claims Colbath lifted her pants up before pushing and rubbing his knuckle on her private area. Doctors told police there was no reason for staff members to look in that area in the first place.

The child said Colbath allegedly pointed a phone that did not appear to be hospital-issued at her private area. She said there was a flash of light, similar to a camera flash. When she looked up to see what was happening, Colbath allegedly told her to look at the ceiling.

Colbath was supposed to be in the patient's room only to take vitals and help other nurses, according to court documents.

Elliot Hospital released a statement about the arrest:

"The safety of our patients, staff, and visitors at Elliot Health System is our highest priority. For further information regarding the situation, we refer you to local authorities."

Elliot Hospital officials told WMUR on Tuesday that Colbath is no longer employed.

The Manchester Police Department declined to comment further outside of their initial release about the arrest.

New Hampshire Child Advocate Cassandra Sanchez said families should be aware of what resources are available to help in such situations, even if they're never needed.

"Get them those preventative services. We have home services available through our children's system of care. But not all families know about that," Sanchez said. "So, it's about getting the messaging out there so that they know who to reach out to and do that before it reaches a crisis level."

The New Hampshire Coalition of Domestic and Sexual Violence says many incidents like these end up unreported. For that reason, they encourage immediate action if anyone becomes aware of them, in order to better protect affected children.

"It's such a strong reminder of the importance of safeguards — and really strong safeguards — in all child-serving institutions, and the importance of accountability when boundaries are violated," said program director Meg Chant with the Coalition.

She adds that families would do well to stay aware of what their children need, especially in a situation under duress, as the victim experienced.

"Parents know their child in that situation, and so it's really (about) being able to be there and be that advocate. They know if their child is saying something's wrong," Chant said.

Colbath is due in court Jan. 8 for a probable cause hearing.

The Coalition said crisis center advocates are available 24/7 statewide for support services to victims and survivors. New Hampshire law requires any person who suspects a child under 18 has been abused or neglected must report that suspicion to the state's Division for Children, Youth and Families.

To make a report, you can call 800-894-5533 (in-state) or 603-271-6562.​
