Burlington business gives torn apparel a second chance

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/22/burlington-business-gives-torn-apparel-second-chance/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Crafters in Burlington are giving torn and tattered goods a second chance, helping locals avoid sending them to the landfill.

Wayne Masika of Hinesburg has brought his denim to Sandbox VT for over a year now.

“This was the first time I got a repair, and I think I said the words, ‘go bananas.’ And when I came back in, there were bananas on the pants, which was great,” said Masika.

The Burlington business hoped for customers like him when they opened in 2023.

Sandbox manager Molly Stone says they want to help you get more mileage out of your goods.

“Our whole mission is to keep clothing out of landfills anyway we can,” said Stone.

Like the patches on Masika’s jeans, Sandbox is a bit of a Hodgepodge. Their main section is repairs for everything from a worn jacket to a Burlington police officer’s pants to Skida hats ready for sale.

Stone says working with everyday customers and local companies gives their business a stronger backbone.

“Partnering with local brands has been a huge help to us in terms of thinking of the big picture and having longevity in this business,” she said.

In another corner of the store, used and fixed-up items are resold. In the secondhand clothing section, they turn clothes gifted from the community into something you would want in your closet.

Lately, Stone is seeing more customers searching for sustainable gifts like repaired “heritage” items.

“We’ve gotten baby sweaters and stuffed animals and, you know, grandpa’s flannel button-downs and stuff like that, which is often very sweet,” said Stone.

She argues that this kind of mentality can save you money and make for one-of-a-kind presents during the holidays and beyond.

“I think the stigma around buying new for the holidays is changing, as well. You know, I think our budgets are different, and I think we all need to save where we can,” said Stone.

Masika just signed up for one of Sandbox’s monthly sewing classes. He hopes to learn how to add his own flair to his favorite jeans.

“I think when you make something, there’s more, just more of your, I guess, person in it than just buying something,” he said.

They’re pretty busy right now with things like jackets for the winter season, so they’re looking at a month wait time, but they’re still walk-in friendly.
