Shoppers pack University Mall the last weekend before Christmas

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/22/last-weekend-before-christmas-shoppers-pack-university-mall/

SOUTH BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Last-minute Christmas shoppers filled the University Mall on Sunday, as people rushed to find gifts with three days left until Christmas.

“Last-minute Christmas shopping,” said Morgan Sutliff of Jericho, echoing the sentiment of many shoppers at the South Burlington mall.

Jacob Turner of Milton said he turned to in-person shopping after realizing online delivery wouldn’t work.

“Three days left, and I realized Amazon can’t get it there in time, so here we are,” Turner said.

Hayden Bassett of Vergennes said he was shopping for “last-minute shopping for friends and my girlfriend.”

Katerin Smith of Jericho said the holiday season had passed quickly.

“I haven’t had a chance to go shopping yet because the season has just gone,” Smith said.

Shoppers said they were pleased to see the mall busy, noting that crowds are not typical at the location.

“It’s exciting, I never see people in the mall, so it’s really exciting having people here,” Bassett said.

Foot traffic remained constant throughout the day, with shoppers carrying full bags and families visiting Santa for photos.

Local vendors said the weekend was one of their busiest of the year, with constant foot traffic providing sales opportunities.

“There’s people walking by nonstop. I set up my shelves over there, the train was coming by, I had to look out for that, it gets wild here this weekend,” said Corey Flynn of Montpelier.

Ricky Blanchard of Glover said customers seemed surprised by the mall’s activity.

“Everybody is so happy, and I think a lot of people are surprised that the mall has this many stores, and it’s doing this well, and I hope they continue to support us so we can always have a mall to go to,” Blanchard said.

It wasn’t just the University Mall that saw shopping crowds. The Church Street Marketplace in Burlington was packed, too. The holiday train allowed kids to ride up and down the street.

After a tough year with construction and public safety issues, businesses along the Marketplace say this time of year gives them a boost.

“I mean, even just looking out the window and seeing how busy it is, and how busy it gets in here. I mean, we definitely get customers who make comments about the atmosphere down here, but, I mean, people care about supporting local businesses, and like it’s Church Street, it’s the place to be in Burlington,” said River Bond, an assistant manager at the Vermont Flannel Company.

Shoppers warned that some stores were already running low on inventory.

“If you haven’t gotten any gifts yet for someone, then get out now because the Target has already been like wiped completely out,” Katerin Smith said.

Her daughter Kora Smith offered a reminder: “Remember only four sleeps till Christmas.”
