Newport’s Pick & Shovel celebrates 50 years

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/17/newports-pick-shovel-celebrates-50-years/

NEWPORT, Vt. (WCAX) - If you’ve been to Newport, chances are you stopped by The Pick & Shovel , a local institution that is celebrating 50 years. Shoppers say they came for the variety and stay for the community.

Thirteen-year-old Greg Hamblett’s first job was at his dad’s store.

“If we don’t have it, you don’t need it,” Hamblett said, citing the store’s motto.

Nearly four decades later, Greg and his brother Chris run the place. The Hambletts opened it in 1975, when department stores were sparse in the area.

“We said, ‘Hey, you know, we need to offer the communities products that they can’t get elsewhere,’” Hamblett said.

They added department after department to their sprawling building on Coventry Street. The inventory is seemingly endless. Where else could you get a baby bunny, a pair of steel-toed boots, a brand new toilet and a reverse osmosis system for sugaring season? They’ve got ice cream and a laundromat, too.

After 50 years in business, The Pick & Shovel now competes with several box stores, but Hamblett argues none of them have the variety or charm of his one-stop shop.

“The moment you walk through the door, we’ve got 10 people ready to help you find things and try to offer a friendly hometown feel,” he said.

That’s what keeps former Lowell resident Don Brenek coming back.

“You can see what they had for maple syrup here. So, I’m going to buy a quart or two, you know,” Brenek said. “There’s everything here that you’ll ever need. I can guarantee you, you become friends with the people working here.”

Hamblett is proud to keep the one-of-a-kind store alive for both the sake of his community and the man who started it all.

Reporter Sophia Thomas: How do you think he feels knowing that you’re carrying on his legacy?

Greg Hamblett: I think very proud, I would think. And again, to see what he poured all of his sweat and tears into over the years, being able to carry on and be successful.

The brothers say they hope one of their kids falls in love with the place and keeps it going long after they’re gone.
