First Alert Weather Day: Heavy snow impacting travel

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/02/first-alert-weather-day-heavy-snow-impacting-travel/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Widespread snow will impact our region on Tuesday, with locally heavy snowfall expected. Due to the potential for widespread travel impacts, today is a First Alert Weather Day.

This time, southern Vermont will be the focus for the highest snowfall totals and greatest impacts to travel.

A Winter Storm Warning (shaded in red on the map below) is in effect for central and southern Vermont until late tonight. This is where the heaviest snow and greatest impacts are expected.

Northern areas will see lower snow totals but should still be prepared for potentially slick travel Tuesday. A Winter Weather Advisory is in effect for those areas (shaded in blue) also until late tonight.

Timing:

Snow began moving in early this morning and is still gradually moving northeast. The snow will continue with some bands of heavy snow through this morning and into the early afternoon.

Snow will start tapering off in northern New York mid-afternoon, but some flurries could linger until early this evening. The snow will slowly move out of our region from northwest to southeast through the early evening. The Brattleboro area and parts of New Hampshire could continue to see snow until after 9 p.m.

Impacts:

As the snow moves in this morning, we’re already seeing impacts to travel in southern Vermont. Heavy snow is causing low visibility and quick accumulation on roads.

The heaviest snowfall rates will likely occur from late morning to early afternoon, topping out around a half inch per hour areawide, with locally higher rates possibly exceeding 1″ per hour in southern Vermont.

Plan for hazardous travel conditions in central and southern Vermont. There will likely be slick spots in the northern part of our region as well. If you have to be out on the roads, please use caution.

Snowfall Forecast:

Snowfall totals will be highest in southern Vermont and lowest in northern New York by the Canadian border. The highest totals will likely be in Windham County, where localized totals of 8-12″ are possible. Snow totals drop off gradually to the north through the Upper Valley and into the Northeast Kingdom.

We’re expecting a widespread 2-5″ of snow through the Northeast Kingdom, central Vermont, and most of northern New York. The lowest totals are expected to be in and around the Champlain Valley and far northern New York by the Canadian border, where 1-3″ is likely. Directly by Lake Champlain, there could be even lower snowfall totals of a trace to 2”.

For all the latest updates, download the First Alert Weather App here. Staying in the know is just one way you can stay safe this winter. You can get winter storm alerts for your area sent directly to your phone ahead of inclement weather. We’ll also have updates on the conditions as the snow moves through our region today!
