A magical train ride with Santa

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/a-magical-train-ride-with-santa/article_4faf1435-93b3-4921-b105-f1389e4c46e0.html

In the second year of hosting the event, the Bellows Falls Firefighters' Association offered its Santa Train that transported children from the Bellows Falls Train Station to the "North Pole" on a magical journey to see Santa on Saturday, Nov. 29, 2025.

BELLOWS FALLS — The Santa Train returned to Bellows Falls on Thanksgiving weekend to transport families to the North Pole to see Santa Claus. This is the second year for this fundraiser that benefits the Bellows Falls Firefighters’ Association.

Shaun McGinnis, the Fire Chief for the Rockingham Fire and Rescue Department, said the event was going very well.

“I hope everybody's happy. I hope everyone's out here enjoying it,” said McGinnis. “The Bellows Falls Firefighters’ Association raises funds to do different things in the community. Last year, we purchased three AEDs that we put out in the community where we thought that people needed them.”

He said they also purchased two shipping containers to be used at a new training facility for the newly merged fire department.

In the second year of hosting the event, the Bellows Falls Firefighters' Association offered its Santa Train that transported children from the Bellows Falls Train Station to the "North Pole" on a magical journey to see Santa on Saturday, Nov. 29, 2025.

“It cost us $5,000; we donated those to the new fire department, and we'll use those as our new training facility,” said McGinnis. “Last year, we reinvested about $8,000 to $9,000 back into the community. And that's what it's for, to help offset things that we feel like we could use, that aren't necessarily raised by taxes.”

Five trips to the North Pole departed from the Bellows Falls Train Station, with each one nearly sold out, and took excited children and their families on a journey to pick up Santa. Members of the Bellows Falls Firefighters’ Association and other volunteers handed out cookies and hot chocolate as they traveled down the line.

The Grinch made an appearance in hopes of stopping Christmas at one of the switchyards, but that didn’t dampen the holiday spirit as Santa climbed aboard the train.

With a bell in one hand and a bowl of candy canes in the other, the jolly old St. Nickolas brightened up each train car, yelling “Happy Christmas” as the children smiled in delight.

With sugared-up children, he waved to each child while leaving as he made his way off the train before it headed back to Bellows Falls.

Santa wasn’t the only person with a twinkle in his eye ... McGinnis said he hopes to expand the train service to a two-day event because this year they raised about $11,000 for the organization.
