Chester man accused of killing mom’s cat

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/chester-man-accused-of-killing-mom-s-cat/article_fb7424e4-8e0a-437f-b44d-eb993d0ceab1.html

BRATTLEBORO — A 53-year-old Chester man with a criminal history that is 35 pages long had a few more pages added on Tuesday during an arraignment for taking game out of season.

Investigators learned that Gary Clay Jr. had harvested two deer out of season when they responded to a home in Windham for a report that Clay had shot and killed his mother’s cat, Simba, and pushed his niece down the front stairs.

Clay has been in custody since Dec. 4, when he allegedly shot the cat and was in Windham Criminal Court in Brattleboro on Tuesday for a bail review hearing.

“There’s an allegation that he executed a cat,” said Judge Michael Kainen, “and he already has conditions on a pending aggravated domestic assault.”

Deputy State’s Attorney Johns Congdon pointed out that Clay is prohibited from owning or possessing firearms because of his criminal history.

“His record reflects a lifetime of crime and conditions of release are clearly ineffective,” said Congdon. “Defendant must be held without bail pending trial.”

In 2005, Clay was convicted of aggravated domestic assault, making it illegal for him to have a firearm.

The affidavit filed by Fish and Game Warden Kyle Isherwood states that Clay is not being charged at the state level for possessing a firearm, but there is a pending investigation at the federal level.

Congdon noted the evidence of guilt was substantial, as was the danger Clay poses “to multiple people,” with evidence of abuse to household members “over the span of 20 years … He was on conditions of release stemming from multiple felony charges at the time of this assault.”

Clay has five felony counts currently pending against him in Windham County and 11 active dockets in Vermont.

“It should be noted that multiple people throughout this investigation have advised me they are in fear of Clay and fear for their safety,” wrote Isherwood in his affidavit.

Statements collected during the investigation included: "The guy is a mental case a******”; “[She] is scared to death of him, been for years. She's petrified’; and "Oh, hell yes, are you s******* me? Have you met the man? If you're not scared of him, you should be."

The niece who was pushed down the stairs, when asked on a scale, zero being no fear and 10 being the worst fear she had ever experienced in her life, she advised 100, states an affidavit filed with the court.

Clay was charged with first-degree aggravated domestic assault and a violation of conditions of release.

Prior to the bail review hearing on the assault charge, Kainen arraigned Clay on new charges for taking game out of season.

Fish and Game was notified by troopers of the alleged incident during their investigation of the shooting of the cat.

Troopers were told by a family member that Clay had taken two deer “so far this fall,” one in Windham, a “really big doe,” and another in Pittsford.

Troopers were also told by witnesses that Clay shot the doe with a firearm out of the driver's side window utilizing a handheld flashlight to illuminate it, sometime after 10 p.m.

After receiving a search warrant, 11 bags of deer meat were found.

When one witness was asked if there was more, he responded, "We were eating on it pretty good.”

Clay was charged Wednesday with seven counts, which include taking big game out of season, shooting from a vehicle, transporting and possessing big game taken out of season, cruelty to animals, eight violations of conditions of release, and possession of between eight ounces and one pound of cannabis and nearly an ounce and a half of hashish.

In Rutland County, Clay has pending charges that include petty larceny and false pretenses. In Windsor County he has charges that include giving false information to police and petty larceny. In Windham County, he also has a violation of an ignition interlock device, operating a vehicle without an owner’s consent, burglary, and unlawful trespass.

Clay’s public defender asked the court to give him 60 days to coordinate the cases around the state.

Kainen also noted the state could, but is not doing so, charge Clay as a habitual offender, which could result in an extended prison term.
