A look into one woman's Medicaid fight for her friend

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/healthlab/how-a-delayed-medicaid-application-put-a-keene-nh-womans-life-at-risk/article_79f4cdc1-c615-44a8-951f-b9572eef5fa3.html

This is the second of two stories investigating a state agency’s backlog of Medicaid applications for long-term care, and its effects on residents and communities throughout the Granite State. Find the first story here . See more about how we reported this story here .

When Nancy Clark first met her longtime friend Virginia, it was the 1980s, and both Keene residents were in their 30s. Clark first noticed Virginia’s selflessness, which included offers to cook food for church get-togethers and a passion for looking after children. Over the years, the two enjoyed a warm friendship rooted in their shared faith and love of dogs.

Nancy Clark stops by Pheasant Wood Center to give Virginia some fresh air and a walk around the Peterborough facility on Oct. 1.

“She has the biggest heart of anybody I know,” Clark said, recalling how for years, Virginia would call a list of people from their church and check in on them the Monday after services. “It wasn’t a list that she was handed, it was a list that she compiled herself. … She was always, always there.”

But several years ago, Clark said, Virginia’s Monday phone calls became sporadic, and then stopped coming altogether. At the same time, her presence in the church community lessened. At first, Clark didn’t think much of it. But when other churchgoers shared their concerns about Virginia’s apparent memory loss, Clark said she began to pay closer attention to Virginia’s health. ( Out of consideration for privacy and her ability to consent to this story , The Sentinel will refer to Virginia by her first name only.)

“I started watching her, and she wasn’t there,” Clark said. “Her attention span was shorter.”

In 2023, Virginia was diagnosed with dementia and later Alzheimer’s. In 2024, it was clear to Clark that her friend’s health issues were progressing. In addition to her memory issues, Virginia has diabetes and takes medications, and a change in her personal life led Virginia to begin living by herself. Clark began to worry about what could happen to Virginia: What if she got in a car accident? What if she stopped eating or taking her medications? What if she fell and was injured while alone?

It was clear to Clark, a former nurse, that Virginia needed the type of attention that she could get from living in a nursing home. The process of getting her into such a facility, she had been told, wouldn’t be easy. But seeing that there was nobody else in Virginia’s life who would advocate for her, Clark believed helping her was a matter of Christian principle: “One of our primary focuses other than the Gospel itself is service. … We give charity and don’t expect anything in return. She did it herself, so why is she not entitled to it?”

Paperwork quickly began to pile up as Nancy Clark did her best to find the help her friend Virginia needed, but the Keene resident said she kept running into dead ends.

What Clark didn’t expect was that applying for Medicaid on Virginia’s behalf would consume the following year of her life, which consisted of denial letters, unanswered phone calls and hours spent in the hospital. Very quickly after she began helping Virginia, Clark said, “it felt like I was getting sucked into a situation where there’s no resolution.”

Their story is one of many occurring throughout New Hampshire: The state’s Department of Health and Human Services has a major backlog of Medicaid applications for long-term care that has put numerous senior citizens like Virginia in crisis.

Clark believes their story is representative of a bureaucratic and under-resourced elder care system that is neglecting vulnerable seniors, even as both New Hampshire and the country at-large see an increase in the elderly population.

The process of getting Virginia into a nursing home took nearly a year, left Clark frustrated and afraid, and put Virginia’s life at risk.

Getting started

In September 2024, Virginia fell and broke her arm and shoulder, prompting Clark to begin searching for help from the N.H. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). The state health department is responsible for preventing self-neglect among senior citizens, which Clark believed was happening to Virginia as her dementia worsened.

Clark submitted a self-neglect report to the Keene office of what’s now called the Bureau of Adult and Aging Services, believing it would be a quick way of getting Virginia help. If the report were approved, the state would be required to provide Virginia with “supervision, guidance, counseling and, when necessary, assistance” in making sure her living conditions were safe, as described in the state’s Adult Protection Law .

At the same time, Clark saw that Virginia had enough money in her bank accounts to pay to live at the county-run Maplewood Nursing Home, a 150-bed facility in Westmoreland. In the nursing home industry, a patient who pays for their own care directly instead of through insurance is referred to as being a “self-pay” patient.

Virginia in her wheelchair at Pheasant Wood Center in Peterborough on Oct. 1. Virginia has lived at the center since her fall in July.

At Maplewood, Virginia could get better attention for her memory loss, and medical staff could make sure she was taking her medications regularly. In a June conversation with a Sentinel reporter, Virginia said she wanted to live at Maplewood, having previously worked there. Being there, she said, would also allow her to socialize with other seniors, and feel connected to a community of like-minded people.

But Clark quickly confronted a problem: Despite Virginia having the money to pay out of pocket, Clark said the nursing home asked her to submit a Medicaid application on Virginia’s behalf before she could begin staying there.

Accepting a self-pay patient can potentially lead the nursing home to incur unreimbursed care or fees if the person later applies for Medicaid and is not approved, said Maplewood Administrator Kathryn Kindopp. Kindopp cited patient confidentiality in declining to speak about the specifics of Virginia’s case.

While patients like Virginia are often left on waitlists and spend months applying to Medicaid, nursing homes have to navigate the complexities of the state’s Medicaid reimbursements, which are influenced by factors like the amount of federal funding allocated to Medicaid.

As a county-owned facility, Maplewood is particularly sensitive to changes to Medicaid, which funds roughly 80 percent of the facility’s patients. Cheshire County Finance Director Sheryl Trombly cited numerous stories of families and caregivers like Clark who have struggled to get Medicaid coverage for a loved one.

Other nursing homes in the region wouldn’t accept Virginia as a patient, according to Clark. They either wouldn’t respond to Clark’s phone calls, declined to accept Medicaid or didn’t have the staffing to accept new patients, she said.

On Oct. 16, 2024, Virginia’s Medicaid application was denied: Her assets were too high, according to the rejection letter the Bureau of Family Services sent Clark.

Nancy Clark submitted a self-neglect report to the Keene office of what's now called the Bureau of Adult and Aging Services, believing it would be a quick way of getting Virginia help. Virginia received this letter, saying that "the report is unfounded."

Not long after, Clark received a response from a worker at DHHS regarding Clark’s self-neglect report. The letter, dated Nov. 8, 2024, stated that “the Bureau completed a protective investigation and determined the report is unfounded.”

The frustration, Clark said, was immediate. “I thought there was going to be some help out there.”

Denial-of-care letters and paperwork began to pile up as Nancy Clark took over power of attorney for her friend Virginia. Clark sees their story as representative of the failures within the elder care system.

With both the Medicaid application and the neglect report rejected, Clark grew upset, confused and increasingly fearful for Virginia, whose isolation and dementia continued to deepen. Quickly, Clark said, it felt like the system was working against her, rather than with her.

“I couldn’t get anybody to listen to me or help me, or tell me what to do or where to go to help this person,” Clark said. And although she was able to get in touch with local social service workers who helped her, they couldn’t speed up the Medicaid process.

‘My conundrum’

But not all was lost: Clark said Maplewood staff told her she could still get Virginia into the nursing home. She would just have to resubmit the Medicaid application after “spending down” Virginia’s finances.

Spending down is a common process among people who have too much money to qualify for Medicaid, but can’t afford to pay out of pocket for nursing care for the long-term. It involves reducing the amount of resources and assets that a prospective Medicaid applicant has until their wealth is lower than Medicaid’s requirements. Or, as Maplewood’s Kindopp put it, “impoverishing yourself.”

In November 2024, Clark became Virginia’s power of attorney, giving her the ability to spend down Virginia’s assets and reapply to Medicaid.

Some assets were easy to get rid of relatively quickly, like selling Virginia’s car. But just as selling her car got rid of an asset, it also gave Virginia more money that kept her reportable income above Medicaid’s requirements.

Selling Virginia’s house became a difficult task for several reasons, Clark said. For one, a real estate agent “was bugging the living daylights out of me, telling me that I needed to sell it last year to get top dollar for it,” she said. When Clark asked her where Virginia would go, the real estate agent “told me to put her in a nursing home.”

Nancy Clark said she would spend hours on the phone talking to people at federal, state and local agencies trying to get her friend Virginia the care she needed.

Therein was the paradox: To sell Virginia’s house to get her into a nursing home, Virginia had to move somewhere she could get proper care, but the only place for this was a nursing home. Clark began calling this “my conundrum.”

At the same time, spending down Virginia’s money involved confronting more painful aspects of life, Clark said. This included paying in advance for Virginia’s funeral, the casket, and a plot of land at a local cemetery. Virginia handled this part well, Clark said, with Clark and her friends reassuring Virginia of their love for her.

But by early 2025, Clark said, loneliness and paranoia were taking hold of Virginia as her dementia continued worsening; when Clark would stop by, she said the door would be tied shut with string.

Loneliness and depression are common experiences that can worsen dementia, according to Dr. Sarah Kremen, an Alzheimer’s researcher at Los Angeles’ Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, one of the nation’s top institutions for neurodegenerative diseases. “[When] we’re talking about what contributes to dementia or worsening of dementia, loneliness and depression are at the top of that list.”

Several times, Virginia tried to adopt a dog from a local shelter, but Clark had to stop her.

Faith plays a large role in Nancy Clark’s life. She and Virginia met through church in the 1980s.

“What was heartbreaking for me was to go to the humane society and say, ‘Please don’t let her adopt a dog,’ ” recalled Clark, who knew Virginia wasn’t capable of taking care of one alone. “She wanted the companionship.”

Although Virginia’s memory continued to slip, Clark discovered that “she remembers things that made her feel good and loved.” When they bought Virginia’s headstone, they had a German shepherd, Virginia’s favorite dog breed, engraved next to her name.

‘The forest’

As Clark prepared Virginia’s documents to apply for Medicaid a second time, she found that each detail of the application would bring new complexities.

One of these was the 60-month look-back, a five-year accounting of Virginia’s finances that is required by Medicaid. This required Clark to go to multiple banks where Virginia had accounts, get bank statements and close accounts. Some of the banking transactions required explanation, but with her fading memory, Virginia wasn’t able to help. Clark also discovered Virginia was the victim of numerous phone scams.

Nancy Clark has kept a binder for her friend Virginia while trying to work through all the red tape surrounding elder care.

To keep a paper trail of all the different documents she had to organize for Virginia’s second Medicaid application, Clark kept them in binders and folders. When she spread out all the paperwork on her dinner table, they formed several piles she jokingly began calling “the forest.” In “the forest” were hundreds of receipts from throughout Virginia’s life, ranging from social security records to her passport to marriage records.

Beyond the struggle to navigate the complexities of applying to Medicaid and spending down Virginia’s assets, Clark said she encountered a lack of communication among different parties. No one she spoke to was on the same page, she said, which created an unnecessary number of dead ends.

“The professionals that I talked to on the phone kept saying, ‘Call this number, call that number. There isn’t anything we can do,’ ” Clark said. “As a human being, it’s very frustrating.”

She sent in the second Medicaid application in April.

“I figured it would come back quite quickly,” Clark said. By that time, she said, Virginia’s health issues were reaching a critical point. Food would sit in the fridge untouched for days at a time, Clark said, which meant Virginia wasn’t eating. When Clark would stop by, she would see a full box of medications Virginia wasn’t taking.

In May, Virginia fell to the floor of her house and broke her back in a compression fracture, a common type of back break among aging adults. Clark rushed her to Cheshire Medical Center.

In an email to DHHS after this happened, Clark described how Virginia “called me screaming in pain ... This is becoming a dire situation. What are the next moves?” she wrote.

At the time, Clark said she feared at any moment the worst could happen: “If she doesn’t get into a nursing home, she will die in that house.”

The second fall

By late June, Clark had still not heard from DHHS regarding Virginia’s second Medicaid application, and said she was calling the department nonstop. By that time, she had been responsible for Virginia for nearly eight months, and was spending almost seven days a week with her.

The house in Keene where, until moving into Pheasant Wood Center in Peterborough, Virginia lived. After falling at home in July, Virginia spent two days lying on the floor of her house with a broken back and hip.

Wanting to enjoy Independence Day with her family in the White Mountains, Clark scheduled that week off. She said she left word with several friends through church and a local social services organization that she would be leaving, understanding they would look after Virginia.

“I was a little reluctant to go because I didn’t know if she was going to be OK,” she said.

During the vacation, Clark spent time with her kids, their spouses and her grandsons. They went fishing, hiking, had campfires and went swimming in the Swift River, a favorite spot in the White Mountains for summer vacationers.

She decided to return to Keene early in the day on July 4. Once she did, she pulled into Virginia’s driveway to check on her, and could hear her yelling for help as she went up to the door.

When she entered the house, she found Virginia on the floor, her hip and back broken. Clark immediately “jumped into nursing mode.”

Clark pieced together that Virginia had been on the floor of her house for two days from her medication box; up until the day of the fall, Virginia had taken her medications. When Clark asked Virginia how long she had been lying on the floor, Virginia said, “for two darks.”

Nancy Clark loves to travel but during her time helping her friend Virginia and trying to get her into a nursing home, she said she rarely had time to do so. When she did decide to take a trip with her family to the White Mountains, Clark said she'd made arrangements for others to check in on Virginia but returned to find her lying on the floor of her home with a broken back and hip.

Following the accident, Virginia was taken to Cheshire Medical Center and then UMass Memorial Medical Center in Worcester. Due to the severity of her injuries, she was able to qualify for rehab care through Medicare at the Pheasant Wood Center in Peterborough, where she has been staying ever since. However, Medicare funds rehab for only 100 days. Since that funding ran out, Virginia has been a self-paying resident.

Clark feels the elder care system failed Virginia, and that nobody she has told about Virginia’s fall has taken responsibility for it.

“I just feel like there’s no accountability,” she said. “That’s one of the most frustrating things.”

An uncertain future

As of the publication of this article, Virginia’s Medicaid application was still pending. “I’m pretty sure at this point we’re going to be denied again,” Clark said.

Clark has now spent 15 months fighting for Virginia at a time when she herself is trying to enjoy retirement. To her, this consists of going to her grandchildren’s soccer games, attending church services and sewing pillowcases for Christmas presents. Now that Virginia has medical care, Clark said she can finally take a step back and assess what has happened.

“I sit here, and I’m like: ‘What’s going to happen to me?’ ” said Clark, who is 71. “It’s crazy. It’s crazy.”

Images of Jesus’ compassion and other Christian symbolism adorn the Clark household in Keene. Nancy Clark sees helping Virginia as a matter of Christian principle. “We give charity and don’t expect anything in return,” Clark said. “She did it herself, so why is she not entitled to it?”

She sees her and Virginia’s situation as a microcosm of a major unaddressed issue in the United States: the lack of meaningful support for elderly people, who represent the fastest-growing age group, according to Census data.

“This is an epidemic in this country; we don’t know what to do with the elderly people,” Clark said. “We just put them in a rocking chair or recliner with an Afghan [blanket] and feed them three times a day, and that’s it. They’re not living, and some of them have a lot of life left and a lot of potential.”

This spring, while Clark was trying to get Virginia into Maplewood, the nursing home’s administration was preparing for yet another problem: upcoming federal and state cuts to Medicaid. The nursing home was already operating in “reactive mode,” Kindopp told The Sentinel at the time, and saw its deficit swell from $4.4 million in 2023 to $5.7 million in 2024.

In July, Congress passed the largest ever cut to Medicaid, which President Donald Trump signed into law. Although the cuts have yet to take effect, researchers at the Brown University School of Public Health estimated in June that the cuts would put 579 facilities across the country at high risk of closure.

Virginia doesn’t get many visitors, so Nancy Clark’s time with her is one of the few times she gets to see people other than Pheasant Wood Center residents or staff.

“I would love to get together with people and be tough enough to go to the government and say, ‘What are you doing? Why are you doing this? Why?’, ” Clark said, of both the federal and state governments cutting Medicaid funding. “I would love to have that energy, which I do not have because of this.”

Virginia’s situation is still unfolding, and Clark’s not sure when or how it will end. But for now, Clark said, she is glad Virginia, now 75, is safe and her worst fears didn’t come true.

“She is happy,” Clark said. “I’m so psyched.”

Virginia’s health has been slowly improving, and she has been getting physical therapy for her hip and attention to her memory issues.

When Clark visits her, she takes Virginia out for walks and to local diners. There, they eat sandwiches too big to finish, sip on diet sodas, and talk about the time Virginia went to France.

Virginia doesn’t remember everything that happened to her, but she shares Clark’s frustration, knowing the elder care system failed her.

One morning at the diner, in between cracking jokes, Virginia expressed her gratitude to Clark.

“I love you,” she said, her eyes fully present after months of isolation and pain.{span class=”print_trim”}

Nancy Clark’s care for others shows through in her creation of homemade, sewn Christmas gifts at her home in Keene.

For help on how to navigate Medicaid applications for long term care, contact the Aging and Disability Resource Center of the Monadnock Region can be reached at 603-357-1922.
