New Burlington art house movie theater set to open this week

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-11-30
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/11/30/new-burlington-art-house-movie-theater-set-to-open-next-week/

A new art house movie theater, Partizanfilm , is set to open in Burlington this week, filling the gap left by the closure of the Roxy Cinema last year.

The cinema, on 230 College St., will open to members on Dec. 3, and to the broader public the following day, with food and screenings of two movies from the 1970s, “The Last Picture Show” and “Kings of the Road.”

The movie theater has two intimate auditoriums — with 31 and 19 seats, respectively — and a lobby with a cafe-bookstore.

“I kind of couldn’t imagine living in a place without a movie theater,” said Brett Yates, president of Partizanfilm and one of the nonprofit’s five board members.

Yates said the Roxy was the only commercial movie theater in Burlington, and when it closed last year, he was hoping someone would open a new movie theater. Once it became evident that no one would, he decided to step in.

“I talked with some friends and with my wife, and we thought, well, maybe we could be the ones who do something about it,” Yates said.

So the five Burlingtonians started looking for spaces for sale to create the movie theater and bought the current property last May.

Now, after months of renovation and with the help of volunteers and members, the space is ready for the upcoming opening.

The cinema will be open seven days a week and offer a mix of commercial movies, independent and foreign films, and old movies. Movies in the evening cost $12, with cheaper tickets during the day. Members have a $2.50 discount on any ticket.

Some of the first movies on the schedule include “Angel’s Egg,” “Henry Fonda for President,” and “Eternity,” with later screenings featuring titles such as “Marty Supreme,” starring Timothée Chalamet, and “The Secret Agent,” which won the best director and best actor prizes at the 2025 Cannes Film Festival.

“We’re not business people. We’ve never started a nonprofit corporation before,” Yates said. “But I think we’ve been, overall, very fortunate. It has kind of all come together.”

Yates said the board wanted to create a social hub where people could gather and talk about films, not just a movie theater.

His wife, Michelle Sagalchik, who is also a board member, said the plan is for people to get involved in the cooperative project and potentially run to become board members when current board members finish their terms.

“We want Partizanfilm to belong to the community. We want the community to take ownership of it,” Yates said.

Partizanfilm already has about 390 members, according to Yates.

“We — the founding board — don’t want to run it forever,” he said. “We’re creating a cultural institution that we hope we can pass on to everybody.”
