VTDigger announces triple-match opportunity for Giving Tuesday, plus webinar to focus on Vermont’s education reforms

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-11-30
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/11/30/vtdigger-announces-triple-match-opportunity-for-giving-tuesday-plus-webinar-to-focus-on-vermonts-education-reforms/

If you’re considering a year-end gift to VTDigger, please plan to make it tomorrow on Giving Tuesday. A generous group of donors has pledged to triple every gift received on Dec. 2 , multiplying your impact on nonprofit journalism in Vermont.

Every gift we receive helps us produce the fiercely independent news you rely on year round, and this Tuesday, it will be tripled.

As part of our commitment to serving Vermonters, we’re also hosting a free virtual conversation with education reporter Corey McDonald live on Tuesday, Dec. 2, at noon.

Vermont’s public education system is in the midst of its biggest transition in years. Act 73, the state’s sweeping new education reform law, has already set major changes in motion, but as the next legislative session approaches, key questions remain unanswered.

Corey has been covering the rollout of Act 73 since it was signed into law in July, 2025. In this one-hour session, he’ll unpack the reforms already reshaping Vermont’s schools and answer reader questions.

Register for free below.

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 2, 2025 Time: 12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Location: Free webinar via Zoom Register now: Reserve your spot below

Δ

FAQ

Will there be a live Q&A session? Due to anticipated attendance at this virtual event, there will not be a live Q&A section. Instead, we are soliciting pre-submitted reader questions to shape the conversation.

Where can I find the latest news about education reform? Revisit Corey’s reporting on Act 73 and more here .

Will a recording be available? Yes, a recording of the conversation will be made available on the VTDigger website and on our VTDigger YouTube channel for those who cannot join live.

How can I support VTDigger’s reporting? Please consider a donation on Giving Tuesday, Dec. 2 during our special triple match.
