ATV Training Ride Ends in Minor Injuries in Westmoreland

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-atv-training-ride-ends-in-minor-injuries-in-westmoreland/

A woman learning to ride an ATV in Westmoreland was hospitalized with minor injuries Friday after accidentally accelerating into a rock.

WESTMORELAND, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) A Massachusetts woman was taken to the hospital Friday morning after she lost control of an ATV while practicing on private land in Westmoreland.

According to New Hampshire Fish and Game, the crash happened shortly before 11 a.m. on Nov. 28, when 67-year-old Janice Cormier of Norwell, Mass., was learning to operate the machine with her daughter, Acacia, riding as a passenger. The pair were traveling downhill on a trail on Cormier’s property when she accidentally hit the throttle instead of the brake. The ATV lurched forward and clipped a rock, forcing Cormier into the handlebar.

Officials said she remained conscious after the incident and was able to walk to the ambulance on her own. Keene Fire Department personnel transported her to Cheshire Medical Center, where she was treated for injuries described as non-life-threatening. Investigators said operator inexperience was the likely cause of the crash.

Fish and Game officials used the incident to remind riders to stay aware of trail conditions, know their skill limits and use proper safety gear, including helmets and seatbelts.

Nicole Colson is the editor-in-chief of MyKeeneNow. She can be reached at 603-352-9230, X-322.

Keene ombudsman George Downing tells WKBK he’s working to meet every downtown stakeholder ahead of the city’s two-year rebuild.

Keene officials are urging residents to prepare for rotating winter parking bans and to use designated lots when overnight street parking is restricted.

Rindge police are investigating a string of road-sign vandalisms that pose safety concerns and could leave taxpayers footing replacement costs.

A potentially significant winter storm Tuesday could drop more than six inches of snow and disrupt travel across Maine and New Hampshire.

Keene woman Kelli Tedford sentenced for urinating on food at a grocery store and hotel property
