Ambitious plan to redevelop Barre’s flood-prone North End stalls

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/ambitious-plan-redevelop-barres-flood-prone-north-end-stalls/

BARRE, Vt. (WCAX) - Leaders in Barre say an ambitious proposal to flood-proof the Granite City’s North End is on life support.

Earlier this month, state leaders announced $49 million to aid in the 2023 flood recovery effort, restoring floodplains and getting a jump start on 200 units of housing.

Barre suffered from the back-to-back July flooding in both 2023 and 2024, and the community is still rebuilding.

Two years ago, Governor Phil Scott, who hails from Barre, pitched a plan to dramatically redevelop the city’s North End to prevent future flooding. “We want to do something big, and all have to be on the same page somewhat,” Scott said in 2023.

But two years later, not much has changed in the North End. Barre City Manager Nicolas Storellicastro says the massive idea to redevelop the neighborhood is nearly sunk. “Frankly, I’m tired of giving these people bad news,” he said.

Storellicastro says Barre received two of the disaster grants this week to help build more housing in town, which will be a big help to the city and the grand list. But he said efforts to buy out or acquire properties in the North End and restore it to the floodplain were not included. “I don’t know where we turn to get the type of money we need to get this done,” he said.

Doug Farnham, Vermont’s flood recovery czar, says longer-term projects like this will take time and that progress will be incremental. “I think it’s something that Vermont will be working through over the next two decades or more,” he said.

Farnham says there was some disagreement on the project’s granular details, like how far back to build from the river. “It really requires everyone be on the same page about what is happening, not what they want to see in the long run, and the goals. But really, the concrete thing is exactly the project that we’re going to be doing,” Farnham said.

Storellicastro stresses that the disaster funds are one of the only cash sources without lots of strings attached and that there needs to be a second round of funding to get the project off the ground. “I understand it’s incremental, but at some point something needs to happen otherwise it’s no progress at all,” he said.

But both agree that resources are strained and Vermont cannot do it alone without help and cash from Congress.
