Burlington secures funding for 1st-of-its-kind recovery shelter

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/burlington-secures-funding-1st-of-its-kind-recovery-shelter/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Burlington has secured funding for a first-of-its-kind shelter that aims to help unhoused adults seeking recovery from substance use.

The growing issue of homelessness and open drug use on Queen City streets is visible to many residents.

“I’ve lived here my whole life, and I’ve never seen it as bad as this,” said Mukhtar Abdul Khaleiq of Winooski.

The new 12-bed shelter will be in a building owned by the Howard Center and will be operated by the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity.

The Howard Center currently has workers in the building painting and prepping the space, and they’re expecting furniture to start coming in next week.

The Burlington City Council on Monday approved $104,000 from Burlington’s opioid settlement fund to help staff the shelter, ensuring two people can be on-site at all times.

“We want to make sure that staff are well supported and that we are operating under best practices, which for shelter provision is having two staff members on duty,” said Sarah Russell, who recently switched from being the city’s special assistant to end homelessness to become CVOEO’s emergency director.

Russell says the shelter is classified as a level two recovery shelter, meaning it will be a drug and alcohol-free facility — the only one in Burlington. “We have the ability to support folks in exiting street homelessness under a low barrier model, and then we also have different types of shelter that can be supportive based on what their needs may be,” she said.

The Howard Center is planning to staff a clinician to work one-on-one with clients and lead psychotherapy sessions.

City Council President Ben Traverse, D-Ward 5, says these kinds of shelters are the right step forward. “There’s not enough of them here locally, there’s not enough of them across the entire state. And certainly this is not going to fully meet the need, but it’s an important next step,” he said.

CVOEO is hoping to staff around eight people to help manage the shelter and open its doors on February 1.
