Scott administration pitches plan to buy down property taxes

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/scott-administration-pitches-plan-buy-down-property-taxes/

MONTPELIER, Vt. (WCAX) - The Scott administration says it wants to buy down a forecast 12 percent property tax hike next year to about six percent.

Top Scott administration officials on Tuesday presented a plan to use $75 million to once again buy down property tax rates.

The double-digit increase is due in part to ongoing increases in education spending, which the state also artificially bought down last year.

Vermont Finance Commissioner Adam Greshin says there will likely be choppy waters ahead for the state budget. “Knowing we have a large education funding challenge -- which is the governor’s top priority this year -- and an unsettled revenue outlook, we’re certainly unclear in revenue. You can anticipate when we come back in a month after the governor delivers his budget, it will be a similar approach,” Greshin said.

The Scott administration’s proposal may or may not be the final plan. Democratic lawmakers will get their say when they reconvene in January.

There’s been political battles over this before. The governor this spring vetoed similar budget adjustment measures because they contained homeless hotel funding.

The money to buy down property tax bills comes from unallocated tax money the state was not expecting, or money that was never put toward programs. It’s placed in what’s known as the Budget Adjustment Act , basically a mid-year tweak to the state budget passed in June.

There’s more money than expected because of a state revenue upgrade and millions of dollars that went unspent.

The state has been using surplus and unspent money to artificially buy down rates for years now. There have been concerns from some that the state has been kicking the can too long. The worry is what happens if the economy slows down and the state no longer has that cash, and taxpayers are hit again.
