Former Harrisville Man Sentenced to 27 Years for Live-Streamed Child Sex Abuse Crimes

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-former-harrisville-man-sentenced-to-27-years-for-live-streamed-child-sex-abuse-crimes/

A former Harrisville man has been sentenced to 27 years in federal prison for paying overseas traffickers to produce live-streamed child sex abuse material.

CONCORD, N.H. ( MyKeeneNow ) — A former Harrisville man has been sentenced to 27 years in federal prison for purchasing and directing live-streamed child sex abuse, according to the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New Hampshire.

U.S. District Judge Paul J. Barbadoro sentenced 46-year-old David Mendum, now of Epping, on Wednesday to 324 months behind bars for coercion and enticement of a minor, followed by five years of supervised release. Prosecutors say Mendum paid a child sex trafficker in the Philippines to produce live-streamed sexual abuse of children and transmit it to him online.

Investigators found he financed the abuse hundreds of times over several years, paying more than $39,000, according to Homeland Security Investigations. Federal officials said the sentence reflects the seriousness of the crime and the global effort required to bring the case forward.

The Department of Homeland Security led the investigation with assistance from the New Hampshire Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force and Epping police. The case was prosecuted under Project Safe Childhood, a national initiative aimed at combating child exploitation.

Abbie is News Director and an award-winning reporter for Monadnock Media Group, recognized several times by the New Hampshire Association of Broadcasters. Abbie can be reached by email at atrombly@wkbkradio.com.

Holiday concerts, theater, history tours and a cookie stroll highlight this weekend’s lineup across the region.

KEENE, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) Former Cheshire Medical Center nurse Steven Finnell received a fully suspended […]

A former Harrisville man has been sentenced to 27 years in federal prison for paying overseas traffickers to produce live-streamed child sex abuse material.

Maggie Goodlander told WKBK she’s pushing bipartisan bills on healthcare costs, firefighter cancer benefits and transparency on military action.

A second-alarm blaze tore through Bottom of the Hill Auto in Antrim, leaving the garage a total loss and prompting a community-driven GoFundMe campaign to help the owners recover.
