Weekend Pulse 12/13-12/14

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-weekend-pulse-12-13-12-14/

Holiday concerts, theater, history tours and a cookie stroll highlight this weekend’s lineup across the region.

MONADNOCK REGION, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) As the holiday season ramps up, the Monadnock Region and southern Vermont are packed with festive concerts, family shows, historic tours and community gatherings. Whether you’re looking for a sweet start to the weekend, a lively performance or a cozy way to celebrate the season, here are the events happening Dec. 13–14.

10 a.m.–1 p.m. Jaffrey Woman’s Club, 33 Main St. Let the Jaffrey Woman’s Club handle your holiday baking this weekend. Visitors can stroll table to table and fill a platter with homemade treats for $10 per pound. A raffle for a gingerbread house will support the Jaffrey Food Pantry. More information: jaffreywomansclub.org

10 a.m.–2 p.m. Fast Friends Greyhound Adoption Center, 14 W. Swanzey Road Bring your dog, cat or small pet for a photo with Santa. Digital photos are $20, and families receive a pet goodie bag while supplies last. Proceeds support the care of retired racing Greyhounds and other adoptable dogs. More information: fastfriendsgreyhounds.org

2–3:30 p.m. First Congregational Church of Swanzey, 679 Old Homestead Highway The church hosts “Christmas Presence,” a musical program of hope, peace and love featuring the work of composer Pepper Choplin. Admission is by donation. More information: fccswanzey.org

2–4 p.m. New England Youth Theatre, 100 Flat St. Marisha Chamberlain’s adaptation of Louisa May Alcott’s classic returns to the NEYT stage. Performances continue through Dec. 21. Tickets are $15–$20. More information: neyt.org

2:30–4:30 p.m. Thayer Public Library, 3 Ashuelot Main St. Historian Gene Piurkowski leads a walking tour of Ashuelot’s historic sites, including the covered bridge, train depot and Jenks Homestead. Dress for the weather. Refreshments provided. More information: thayerpubliclibraryashuelot.org

4 p.m. Gathering Waters Chartered Public School, 98 S. Lincoln St. Project Shakespeare presents Charles Dickens’ holiday classic. Tickets are available at the door or by email. Adults $15, children 12 and under $5. More information: projectshakespeare.org

6 p.m. The Park Theatre, 19 Main St. Singer-songwriter Eve Pierce performs an evening of original music. More information: theparktheatre.org

7–10 p.m. Brewbakers A festive night of music and entertainment. Tickets available on Eventbrite. More information: novaarts.com

7:30 p.m. Next Stage Arts, 15 Kimball Hill Tony Award-winning composer David Yazbek performs songs from his Broadway shows and solo albums in an intimate, one-night-only concert. More information: nextstagearts.org

12–2:30 p.m. 136 Main St. (former Plated Restaurant space) Sandglass Theater brings a tiny circus to life through the antics of a larger-than-life flea. Tickets are $5. More information: brattleboro.com

2–3:30 p.m. and 4:30–6 p.m. MoCo Arts, 40 Roxbury St. This youth adaptation of the classic musical features Peter, Tinkerbell and the Darling children in their high-flying adventure. More information: moco.org

2–2:45 p.m. and 4–4:45 p.m. MoCo Arts, 40 Roxbury St. MoCo’s youngest performers take the stage in this kid-friendly musical version of the Disney favorite. Tickets are $15. More information: moco.org

7–8 p.m. United Church of Christ of Keene, 23 Central Square The community is invited to sing or listen to selections from Handel’s “Messiah.” Additional dates follow on Dec. 17 and 21. More information: ucckeene.org

Serving the Monadnock Region for decades with trusted plumbing, heating, and cooling service, installs, and repairs.

KEENE, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) Former Cheshire Medical Center nurse Steven Finnell received a fully suspended […]

A former Harrisville man has been sentenced to 27 years in federal prison for paying overseas traffickers to produce live-streamed child sex abuse material.

Maggie Goodlander told WKBK she’s pushing bipartisan bills on healthcare costs, firefighter cancer benefits and transparency on military action.

A second-alarm blaze tore through Bottom of the Hill Auto in Antrim, leaving the garage a total loss and prompting a community-driven GoFundMe campaign to help the owners recover.
