A moment in local history: Bathsheba Day’s ride, by Alan F. Rumrill

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/rumrill-nh--bathsheba-days-ride/article_4bab71c9-8725-4912-a341-5a82f2033479.html

Ebenezer Day was one of the first settlers of Keene in the 1730s. He settled in the north part of town, on what is now the East Surry Road near the Surry town line. This location, adjacent to the Ashuelot River, was good for farming but was far from the fort on Keene’s Main Street. Ebenezer Day farmed his land, operated a grist mill, and opened a tavern prior to 1754.

It was during that year that war once again broke out between the British and the French. This was the fourth war between those two European empires that saw fighting in North America. The English had several colonies along the Atlantic coast of North America while Canada was a colony of the French. Both countries wished to control North America, resulting in the fighting here.

Keene was still near the edge of the wilderness of north central New England at that time and there was some concern that Native Americans who were allies of the French might raid some of the English settlements in the area. Ebenezer and his wife, Bathsheba, must have watched the forest closely as they worked on the farm and cared for their young children. They had two daughters by that time, Ruth, age 4, and 1-year old Bathsheba.

One day in 1755 Ebenezer was warned that some Native Americans had been seen in the town and that the Day family should go to the fort for safety. Ebenezer and Bathsheba gathered up young Ruth, placed 1-year old Bathsheba in a meal sack, climbed on their horse, and rode as fast as possible toward the fort, 4 miles away.

Mrs. Day clung to her husband with one hand and used the other to hold the meal sack, which bounced off the side of the moving horse. The family reached the fort without incident. When they climbed down from the horse and opened the sack, however, they found that the baby was upside down and had made the 4-mile journey on her head.

Amazingly, Bathsheba Day suffered no ill effects from her perilous ride. Twenty-five years later she married Nathan Blake Jr. His father, Nathan Sr., had himself been captured by Indians and held captive in Canada for more than two years. Nathan Jr. and Bathsheba (Day) Blake, children of the French and Indian Wars, eventually raised eight children of their own in Keene.
