Keene downtown infrastructure project bids $8M higher than expected

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/keene-nh-downtown-infrastructure-project-bids-millions-above-projected-cost/article_401204b7-c977-4902-b1ec-94cdfcbb46d7.html

Construction bids for Keene's downtown infrastructure project are roughly $8 million higher than the city's estimates, according to information the city manager gave city councilors Thursday night.

Bidding for construction, materials and labor for the overhaul — recently projected to cost roughly $20 million — began in November and concluded Thursday, when city staff got a first look at the two proposals submitted. The lowest estimate was $28 million from the Pittsford, Vt.-based Casella Construction, City Manager Elizabeth Ferland said. The other bid from Dracut, Mass.-based Albanese D&S had a $30.8 million price tag, Ferland told city councilors on Thursday night.

"Those bids came in this afternoon, and we have not gone through and looked and compared them to our engineer estimate and to each other," she said.

Ferland added that staff will examine the proposals in more detail and discuss next steps at January's meeting of the City Council's Municipal Services, Facilities and Infrastructure Committee.

The purpose of the project, which spans Main Street from Central Square to just before the Main-Marlboro-Winchester streets roundabout, is to replace old pipes beneath the downtown. It also includes several above-ground modifications such as protected bike lanes, flashing crosswalks and solar panels.

The work was slated to unfold in two stages, with the first phase — covering Central Square and part of Main Street — in the works for next spring.

The project was originally scheduled to go out to bid this past spring, but in January, city councilors pushed its start date to 2026. In August, councilors learned that the project was predicted to cost almost $5.5 million more than the roughly $17.4 million city officials previously expected. The council then voted to trim parts of the project — including work on Gilbo Avenue and Church Street — and scaled back the construction timeline from three years to two. These and other cost-cutting measures reduced the estimate to roughly $20 million.

That $20 million estimate came from engineering firm Stantec. On Thursday, councilors were critical of the firm's work as they decided whether to hire Stantec for another project, to construct a pavilion with a solar array on Gilbo Avenue.

In a 10-5 vote, councilors rejected giving Stantec the contract.

The most vocal opposition to hiring Stantec again came from Councilors Mitch Greenwald and Randy Filiault.

Greenwald said he was concerned about Stantec's ability to manage projects because of the gap between the company's estimates for the downtown infrastructure project and the bids that were opened Thursday.

"I will vote no on this," he said. "I think the project is otherwise great but we need a different engineer on this."

Later in the meeting, Ferland said that staff recommendations for the infrastructure project could include rebidding the project in the spring, but that the city needs more time to explore the options.

"Staff will take a deliberate pause to fully review the bid submissions and evaluate available options to us."
