LIVE: Closing arguments in Brian Walshe murder trial

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brian-walshe-murder-trial-live-updates-december-12/69709838

Closing arguments are underway in the murder trial of Brian Walshe, the Massachusetts man accused of killing and dismembering his wife, after attorneys informed the court that the defendant would not testify.

The Cohasset man is accused of killing and dismembering Ana Walshe, 39, around New Year's Day in 2023. Prosecutors allege that Brian Walshe disposed of his wife's remains in dumpsters around the area.

Ana Walshe was last seen alive on New Year's Eve in 2022. What began as a missing person search in Cohasset and Washington, D.C., quickly escalated. Within days, Brian Walshe was arrested and accused of misleading investigators.

Prosecutors said he killed his wife, believing she was having an affair, then dismembered and disposed of her body, which was never found.

For eight days, the prosecution laid out gruesome evidence which included video of Brian Walshe buying a hacksaw and cleaning supplies and Google searches for how to dispose of a body.

The defense, in the end, chose not to put Walshe on the stand and did not call any witnesses.

"The defense is going to harp on that in their closing statement. How can you convict Brian Walshe of murder if you don't really know a murder took place? Conversely, the government is going to say, 'Sure it's a circumstantial case, but it's as strong a case as you can possibly develop between Google searches, shopping, and then the DNA that's found,'" said Greg Henning, of Henning Strategies. "So it's really a circumstantial case in theory, but the government is going to present this as an open and shut case. There's no other person in the world who would have done this had they not been responsible for killing Ana Walshe."

State police investigators testified about internet searches made on Brian Walshe's devices, including "how to saw a body," and "is it possible to clean DNA off a knife." Audio of police interviews with Brian Walshe were played, and photos of Ana's belongings found in the trash after she went missing.

Will Fastow, a real estate broker in Washington, D.C., where Ana was living and working, testified about his romantic involvement with her.

"We quickly became close friends, confidants, and then an intimate relationship," Fastow said.

The defense argued that Brian was unaware of the affair, with Fastow confirming that Ana spoke positively about Brian and cared for him deeply.

Close friends of Ana also took the stand, with one woman describing Ana's stress about her marriage. Prosecutors highlighted that Brian and their three children had to remain in Massachusetts while he faced a federal art fraud case.

"She told me how upset she was and how frustrated she was and how she was really at a breaking point," the friend said.

The jury was shown surveillance video of Brian Walshe shopping for items prosecutors claim he used to dismember Ana, including a hacksaw, a hammer and a hatchet.

As jury selection was beginning two weeks ago, Brian Walshe abruptly changed his plea to guilty on charges of misleading police and moving his wife's body.

The change of plea is an admission that Brian Walshe knows his wife is dead, which means that his defense team cannot argue that there is no proof of her death. It also means that prosecutors will need to overcome questions about the cause of her death.
