Granite Staters work to clear snow during first statewide snowstorm of the season

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/new-hampshire-snowstorm-cleanup-1225/69610043

Granite Staters are working to stay ahead of the snow during the first statewide snowstorm of the season.

From the Monadnock Region, to the Merrimack Valley, Seacoast and father north, snow fell at a pretty good clip on Tuesday.

“I love snow. Yeah, I'm getting the snowblower, gas in the ready position,” Clark Ohnesorg, of Peterborough, said. “We have a portable generator and we always fill up the cars with gas before the storm, and, just get the snow blower ready to go.”

Some were ready for the snow.

“Plow is on the truck, and everything is in the back of the truck I need: Shovel, sand, tow chain,” Ron Black said.

Others have a different view about the snow.

“Got the snow already yesterday. Like I said, ‘Happens every year.’ So, yeah. No big deal up here,” Don Taylor, of Jaffrey, said. Asked whether he likes the snow, Taylor said, “Used to. Not anymore. It's not as fun.”

>> It's snowing in New Hampshire, so we wondered: What is Ray Brewer up to?

Plows got an early start to treat the roads, sidewalks and parking lots, working to try and keep the roads safe for anyone that has to be on them.

“Slow, and watch out for the other guy,” Black said.

“I'm taking the day off from work. I'm not driving today because everybody has to practice driving in snow. So, I don't want to be out there with them practicing,” Ohnesorg said.

Those who can stay home are making the most of it.

“Have fun, maybe make snow angels,” Ohnesorg said. “Snowman for the grandkids.”

In Amherst, WMUR’s Alanna Flood saw several plows come by. Around noon, the snow was starting to stick to the roadways and there was not much pavement that was visible.

The Amherst Public Works Department has a three-stage plan in place to keep roads clear:

People who live in the area also prepared for the snow’s arrival. Joe Conrad said his wife sent him out to do some last-minute errands and get ready to plow.

“Getting ready for winter.  The snow blower, it needs attention, it needs TLC you know, oil, to be ready to go. There's no fooling around this time of year. You have to be ready,” Conrad, of Mont Vernon, said.

Anyone who plans to head out are asked to take things slow, leave plenty of room on the road and to move over for plow drivers.
