Vermont congressional delegation nominates 23 students for military academies

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-21
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/21/vermont-congressional-delegation-nominates-23-students-military-academies/

MONTPELIER, Vt. (WCAX) - Vermont’s congressional delegation nominated 23 students for military academy appointments Saturday, with the applicants speaking to lawmakers about their goals to serve the country.

Senators Peter Welch and Bernie Sanders, along with Representative Becca Balint, met with the nominees at the Statehouse to discuss their motivations for military service.

“You’ve made a decision that life is better when you’re helping others,” Welch said.

Balint told the students that regardless of whether they are accepted, being nominated is significant.

“Whatever happens whether you’re accepted or not being here, today is a really big deal,” Balint said.

The five military academies, which provide tuition-free undergraduate education and training for individuals commissioning into the armed forces, are: the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.

As part of the application process, candidates must receive a nomination, which these 23 young Vermonters received on Saturday.

Many nominees said they want to be part of something bigger than themselves and protect the ideals the country was built on, according to reporter observations from inside the event.

“That was a very interesting message that came from the young people,” Sanders said.

Welch said the students were motivated by teamwork, service and giving back.

One nominee said the reason that motivated them to serve is wanting to be a doctor.

Francis Robinson, a Merchant Marine applicant, said he wants to be the captain of a ship one day.

“All the books I’ve read since I was a kid have all been sea stories and I just want to be a part of that,” Robinson said.

Grady Gallagher, an Air Force applicant, said he wants to protect the people he loves and replicate the feeling of camaraderie he felt through football.

“I just want to be exceptional,” Gallagher said.

Many families attended the ceremony to support the nominees. Jamie and Sarah Gallagher, Grady’s parents, said they felt proud hearing their son’s answers.

“Seeing that he’s ready to take on the world and really be a leader of this next generation is really awesome,” Jamie Gallagher said.

Beck Welch, an Air Force applicant, called it a special moment.

“This is a very special moment for me and all of us and I think we’ve all worked very hard to be here,” Welch said.

Robinson said the experience was unique and one he will remember forever.

Sanders wished the nominees the best of luck and said Vermont has a long history of dedicated military service.

“I know they’re going to continue that tradition,” Sanders said.

The nominees and the academies their nominations were submitted to are:

The individual academies will make the final admission decisions.

You can learn more about these nomination opportunities here .
