Family Displaced in Rindge Fire

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-family-displaced-in-rindge-fire/

Rindge firefighters battled a chimney fire Sunday night, containing a wall fire but leaving the residence uninhabitable, displacing two residents.

RINDGE, N.H. ( MyKeeneNow.com ) The Rindge Fire Department responded to a reported house fire on Sunday night that ultimately led to the fire department deeming the residence uninhabitable.

The call came into the station just after 7:40 p.m. requesting assistance at 44 Mountain Road for a reported chimney fire with possible extension into the wall.

Heavy fire in the walls and areas surrounding the chimney in the middle of the home were discovered as crews entered the building. The second-alarm fire was knocked down and completed within minutes of arrival on the scene.

Crews remained on scene for another two hours, opening up walls and ceilings to check for continued extension of the fire. Interior and rooftop crews chased hot spots and ventilated the building after confirming that there was no visible extension of the fire.

Due to the heavy smoke, fire and water damage, the residence has been deemed uninhabitable by the Rindge Fire Department, leaving two residents displaced. There were no injuries reported.

The fire is not considered suspicious, as the cause was determined to be a blockage in the pellet stove chimney.

The Rindge Fire Department had nine members of the department on scene. Mutual aid assistance came from Jaffrey, Fitzwilliam, Troy, Richmond, Peterborough, New Ipswich, Winchendon (Mass.), Asby (Mass.), Ashburnham (Mass.), and Great Brook EMS.

John Depin is the Morning News Anchor at the Monadnock Media Group. He can be reached at 603-352-9230, Ext. 338.

Keene’s property tax rate rose to $34.37 per $1,000, up $1.30 from last year, driven mainly by a sharp increase in local education taxes.

If advertising feels less effective, it’s not your business that changed — it’s how customers search, compare, and choose, often long before they ever reach out.

A 31-year-old Keene man was sentenced in federal court to three years in prison after admitting to possessing child sexual abuse material.

Rindge firefighters battled a chimney fire Sunday night, containing a wall fire but leaving the residence uninhabitable, displacing two residents.

Keene Pride received more than $24,000 in charitable gaming funds, helping cover Pride Week costs and support long-term plans for growth.
