Gerda's Equine Rescue reports 'Christmas miracle'

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-21
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/gerdas-equine-rescue-reports-christmas-miracle/article_8e665bbc-2a0f-4257-b3e4-6aa39aa7f075.html

TOWNSHEND — Gerda's Equine Rescue is celebrating "a Christmas miracle."

What began as a mission to rescue two mini horses turned into the rescue of nine.

"We were told that the six mares were pregnant and were due to foal out in late February or early March," Gerda Silver, owner of the rescue, posted on social media and shared with the Reformer. "This group was sold to a kill pen dealer from a breeder in Louisiana. The one stud and daddy to the babies had been gelded three weeks prior to them all entering the slaughter pipeline."

Silver said she committed to the first two when their video was sent to her then quickly realized that this number of horses would be impossible for her rescue to handle. Her heart, she wrote, "was still with the ones we were leaving behind, knowing fully what their fate could be."

A member of the rescue's board of directors reached out to another rescue organization in Connecticut, which agreed to help save the horses. The other rescue, which Silver told the Reformer asked to remain anonymous, committed to five pregnant mares.

Silver described her group being "ever grateful."

"They are well equipped to handle all their needs from the time they arrive until the babies are born and ready to be weaned properly and be adopted out successfully," she wrote. "That organization has paid for its part in full! And we thank them for setting a great example of what can happen when we open ourselves up in SOLIDARITY!"

Gerda's is taking two geldings and two mares. In the post, Silver said she's "seen many miracles happen in this work, and with everyone’s help, this will be one more!"

Silver called the project "a huge undertaking as well as a big leap of faith for me," and credited her husband Bob SIlver with making this "Christmas miracle happen."

"He paid for all nine minis up front as a gift to me," Silver wrote. "He trusted I would do the right thing and sort it all out once the minis arrived. But the priority was to just buy them ASAP. At this kill pen, there is little to no time to secure the safety of any of the poor souls who are stuck there. They come and go in the blink of an eye."

A fundraiser to cover the care of the horses is underway. Payments can be made to paypal.Me/gerdasequinerescue or checks can be sent to GER P.O.B. 1352 West Townshend, VT, 05359.

Silver said she believes "this has all happened at a perfect time."

"Christmas celebrates birth, gifts to be given, and faith to be had!" she wrote. "We pray for Peace on our Earth, and give prayers of thanks for our 'CHRISTMAS MIRACLE!'"

In an interview, Silver said she received "a double gift for sure."

"When you put your mind to creating something, you really have to think about how there's power in numbers," she said. "It's not just you."
