Owner of defunct Eagle-Times newspaper indicted for $50 million Ponzi scheme

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-21
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/owner-of-defunct-eagle-times-newspaper-indicted-for-50-million-ponzi-scheme/article_d75cba2d-4662-4dc1-9808-41c4d3291fc2.html

CLAREMONT, N.H. — The U.S. Department of Justice announced on Thursday that Jay Lucas of Portsmouth, N.H., the owner of the now-closed Eagle-Times newspaper, was charged with multiple counts of fraud, stemming from a variety of wire fraud and money laundering schemes.

Lucas, 71, allegedly raised millions of dollars from private investors over the past eight years, only to spend the money on personal expenses like alimony and rent, and other various projects, including what was described as a "vanity project" of trying to revitalize the newspaper in his former hometown of Newport, N.H.

The U.S. Attorney's office for Southern New York said the fraud totalled $50 million.

"Lucas falsely claimed to have co-founded a well-known private equity firm, which he did not, eventually prompting a cease-and-desist demand from that firm’s lawyers," a release from the Department of Justice, Southern District of New York, stated.

"He told investors that (Lucas Brand Equity's) core strategy is to invest in these small to mid-size emerging brands, provide value-added services to differentiate them and catalyze growth to a sufficient scale for exit," the release stated.

"As of the date of this indictment, none of the funds’ investments have paid off, and no investors have received returns. The funds and their portfolio companies have hemorrhaged cash and been unable to cover basic expenses while Lucas and his family have taken the funds’ money to serve their own interests," the press release stated.

"In reality, Lucas spent investor money on personal expenses including alimony, rent, a vanity newspaper project in his hometown, and political consultants," the release continued. "He used new investor money to pay earlier investors in Ponzi-like fashion, enriching himself while starving the funds and portfolio companies of capital.

"Lucas also funneled investor money to Immunocologie, a luxury skincare business run by Lucas’s wife.

"Most purported investments in Immunocologie went to 'marketing' expenses, such as parties and trips to luxury resorts where Lucas’s wife promoted 'brand awareness.'

"Investors were unaware that Lucas was using their money to fund his wife’s social calendar, and many investors did not even know that the person operating Immunocologie was married to Lucas," according to the release.

The Eagle-Times newspaper, which was based in Claremont, N.H.,  closed in June 2025, amid financial difficulties and after most its staff resigned in protest over non-payment of wages.

Lucas, who grew up in Newport, N.H., was at one time a state representative from Newport, and later founded what he called "The Sunshine Initiative" to promote revitalization of small towns in the country. He ran as a Republican in 1998 for the New Hampshire governor's seat but was soundly defeated by Democrat Jeanne Shaheen.

He left politics, moved to Florida and returned to Portsmouth, N.H., and New York City and started his investment firms in 2017. He ran what the U.S. attorney's office of Southern New York, described as a "classic Ponzi scheme."

Lucas bought the Eagle-Times from Sample News Group in 2022, which in turn purchased the then-closed newspaper out of bankruptcy proceedings.

Contact Susan Smallheer at ssmallheer@reformer.com.
