Providence mayor calls for key witness to get $50K reward

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/providence-mayor-calls-for-key-witness-to-get-50k-reward/69826688

Mayor Brett Smiley sent a letter to the FBI regarding the reward

Mayor Brett Smiley sent a letter to the FBI regarding the reward

Providence Mayor Brett Smiley is asking the FBI to give the $50,000 reward to the witness who played a pivotal role in identifying the Brown University shooting suspect.

"One individual amongst those who provided tips stands out above the rest: John," Smiley wrote in the letter addressed to FBI Director Kash Patel.

"I believe that our community is breathing easier today because of the extraordinary assistance John provided to our law enforcement agencies. I am writing you today to request that the entirety of the $50,000 reward be issued to his incredible Providence neighbor," concluded Smiley.

The FBI has released a statement saying in part, "The FBI maintains longstanding policy not to confirm the identity of individuals who assist the FBI by providing tips or information. Additionally, the FBI will not comment on whether reward money has been paid and to whom."

According to police, the witness, only known as "John," posted to Reddit he spotted the suspect, now identified as  Claudio Manuel Neves Valente, in a car bearing Florida plates.

Police said they were able to find John and, during an interview, got crucial evidence that ultimately led them to Salem, New Hampshire, where investigators found Neves Valente dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The car Neves Valente was seen using also linked him to the murder of MIT professor Nuno Loureiro at his Brookline home Monday night.

In an affidavit, Neves Valente was formally charged with killing Brown students Ella Cook and Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokov during the Saturday night shooting.

Nine others were sent to the hospital; three have since been released, while six others remain hospitalized in stable condition.
