The movements of suspect in Brown University, MIT professor killings

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/nh-brown-university-shooting-suspect-movements-121925/69824730

A manhunt spanning five days, crossing into three New England states, came to a dramatic end Thursday in Salem.

"Even though the suspect was found dead tonight, our work is not done," said Ted Docks of Boston FBI.

With the suspect now dead, we are starting to piece together 48-year-old Claudio Neves Valente's movements in the days since carrying out a mass shooting at Brown University, the place he once studied.

"Absolutely nothing, and to take two children away from their families goes to show you how sick and demented he was. And the fact that he took his own life, I don't think he did that because he was remorseful or had any regret... I think he just didn't want to get caught and be held accountable," said Lisa B. Foley, a U.S Attorney from Massachusetts.

Investigators say after killing two students inside a physics classroom Saturday afternoon, he is said to have traveled north to Brookline, Massachusetts, where he killed his former classmate turned MIT professor, Nuno Luerio, and then eventually made his way up to New Hampshire.

"Eventually, financial records brought us to a storage unit in Salem, New Hampshire ," said Providence Police. "It was one of the officers in Salem, New Hampshire that spotted the vehicle, and then it was a mad rush for us to get there."

New Hampshire's attorney general confirmed that Neves Valente's death was ruled a suicide after he shot himself in the head and that he had been dead inside a Salem storage unit for two days.

Sources tell our sister station WCVB in Boston that Neves Valente may have visited a shooting range in New Hampshire before carrying out the attacks, saying that investigators found a receipt to the range, which has not been identified.

News 9 has reached out to several local gun ranges to try to confirm which gun range Neves Valente may have gone, but we have been unable to identify where.

Authorities say that alongside two guns, five magazines with nearly 200 rounds of ammunition were also found inside the storage unit.
