Autopsy of suspected killer of MIT professor, Brown University shooter to be conducted in New Hampshire

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/autopsy-suspect-mit-professor-brown-shooter-121925/69820745

The autopsy of the suspect in the Brown University mass shooting and the killing of an MIT professor is being performed in New Hampshire.

Investigators found Claudio Neves Valente, 48, dead Thursday night in a Salem storage unit.

Local, state and federal authorities swarmed the Extra Space Storage facility in Salem right off Route 28 on the Methuen line Thursday after their investigation led them to a unit rented by the suspected shooter.

The discovery of Neves Valente's body brought to an end the multiday manhunt for the Brown University shooter. Police said Neves Valente opened fire Saturday in Brown's Barus & Holley engineering building, killing two people and injuring nine others.

Two days later, on Monday, investigators in Brookline, Massachusetts, said MIT professor Nuno Loureiro was shot and killed in his home . Officials originally said the two cases were not connected.

>>> Read the full Providence Police Department affidavit <<<

On Wednesday, investigators said they wanted to speak with another person who was in proximity to the person of interest before the Saturday shooting. Wednesday night, officials said that person was key to leading them to the suspect in both shootings.

"That person led us to the car, which led us to the name, which led us to the photographs, which matched the clothing," said Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Neronha. "He was found dead with a satchel with two firearms and evidence in the car that matches exactly what we see at the scene here in Providence."

Officials also confirmed that Neves Valente was once a doctoral student at Brown and studied with Loureiro in Portugal in the late 1990s.

>> Watch full U.S. attorneys' offices, FBI and ATF news conference :

Investigators said that after Neves Valente killed Loureiro on Monday, he drove to Extra Space Storage in Salem, where he had rented a storage unit in November. Police found him dead inside with self-inflicted gunshot wounds.

"Even though the suspect was found dead tonight, our work is not done," said Ted Docks, FBI special agent in charge of the Boston field office. "There are many questions that need to be answered. There's a lot of evidence that needs to be processed. The FBI and our partners across Rhode Island, Massachusetts and New Hampshire will continue to search for answers."

Officials told ABC News that an autopsy was underway Friday to determine how long Neves Valente had been dead. Ballistics and DNA testing were being done, and investigators were searching thumb drives found in his car for anything that could provide a clue about a motive.

>> See a timeline of the case here:
