Brian Walshe sentenced to life in prison in wife's murder

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brian-walshe-sentencing-murder-december-18/69807981

Brian Walshe, the Massachusetts man convicted of first-degree murder in the death and dismemberment of his wife, Ana Walshe, was sentenced Thursday to life in prison after the victim's sister gave a powerful statement.

Ana Walshe, 39, was last seen alive on New Year's Eve in 2022. Prosecutors argued the Cohasset man killed his wife around New Year's Day of 2023, believing she was having an affair, then dismembered and disposed of her body, which was never found.

A jury convicted the Cohasset man on Monday of first-degree murder after about six hours of deliberations.  A first-degree murder conviction in Massachusetts carries a mandatory sentence of life without parole and an automatic appeal to the Supreme Judicial Court.

Ana Walshe's sister, Aleksandra Dimitrijevic, delivered a victim impact statement on behalf of her family and said the death has left them with an unbearable emptiness.

"Losing my sister, Ana, so unexpectedly has altered our world in ways we never imagined," Dimitrijevic said. "I struggle with the grief that comes without warning, hoping every morning that this is all just a terrible dream. The most painful part of this loss is knowing that her children must now grow up without a mother's hand to hold. They now face a lifetime of milestones, big and small, where her absence will be deeply and painfully felt."

Dimitrijevic said their family was denied the opportunity to say a final goodbye.

"Ana will never be forgotten. We will carry her light and her memory with us forever," she said.

Judge Diane Freniere sentenced Brian Walshe to life in prison without the possibility of parole for Ana Walshe's murder.

He was also sentenced to no more than 20 years for charges of misleading police and no more than three years for the illegal disposal of a body, to which he pleaded guilty before the start of the trial.

Brian Walshe showed no emotion as he received his sentence.

"Your acts in dismembering your wife's body and disposing of her remains in multiple area dumpsters can only be described as barbaric and incomprehensible. You had no regard for the lifelong mental harm that your criminal acts inflicted on your then 2-, 4- and 6-year-old sons not only in taking their mother, but also as is specific to this charge, in never being able to properly grieve that loss."

Sentencing was originally set for Wednesday but was pushed to Thursday, the Norfolk County district attorney's office said. No reason for the delay was given.

The defense said Brian Walshe found Ana Walshe dead in bed after the family's New Year's party, but the prosecution argued successfully that circumstantial evidence showed she was killed and that he disposed of her remains in dumpsters throughout the area.

The jury was shown surveillance video of Brian Walshe shopping for items prosecutors claim he used to dismember Ana Walshe, including a hacksaw, a hammer and a hatchet.

Brian Walshe opted not to take the stand during the trial.

Sentencing is not the final chapter in the Brian Walshe legal saga.  Under state law, a first-degree murder conviction triggers an automatic appeal with the Supreme Judicial Court.

The appeal would review legal procedures around the case and may also challenge the evidence.

"I think one of the issues, among others, will definitely be what we call in the profession 'sufficiency of the evidence,'" said retired Judge James Barretto. "Was there enough evidence to satisfy the elements of first-degree murder? Was there evidence that he caused the death of another human being?"
