Goffstown couple sentenced to prison for selling human remains from Harvard morgue

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/goffstown-couple-sentence-selling-remains-121725/69801878

A Goffstown couple accused of selling body parts stolen from Harvard Medical School have been sentenced to prison.

Cedric and Denise Lodge were both sentenced to prison for selling body parts, including organs, skin and faces, from the Harvard morgue.

Cedric Lodge, 58, is the former manager of the Harvard Medical School morgue. He pleaded guilty to interstate transport of stolen goods and was sentenced to eight years in prison.

Denise Lodge pleaded guilty to selling the remains to buyers across the country. She was sentenced to one year and one day in prison.

According to officials, Cedric Lodge removed human remains from donated cadavers after they had been used for research and teaching purposes, but before they could be disposed of according to the anatomical gift donation agreement between the donor and Harvard Medical School.

Investigators said Cedric Lodge often took the remains to his home in Goffstown. He and Denise Lodge would ship the remains to buyers in other states, including Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, officials said.

Neighbors said that despite what happened, the Lodges seemed like kind people.

"He's a nice man," one neighbor said. "I've never had any trouble with him. I don't think anyone has had any trouble with him. I don't think they've ever had any trouble with the police coming up except when they raided the place originally when it first started."

Victim impact statements from families who donated loved ones' bodies to Harvard were included in court documents.

"What's left for us is disillusionment, shame, memories that will forever be disturbing and thought that will forever be haunting," one spouse wrote.

"It will likely be a long time, if ever, I can look at a picture of my father and not have thoughts like, 'Did he still have his head? Did they sell his Herculean right hand? Were the skin of his tattoos made into cushions?'" a daughter wrote.

Lodge's defense attorney asked the court, during sentencing, to balance punishment with the fact that Lodge had accepted responsibility and expressed remorse for his actions.

News 9 knocked on the Lodges' door for comment, but was told by someone to get off the property.

Harvard Medical School released a written statement calling Cedric Lodge's criminal actions "abhorrent and inconsistent with the standards and values that Harvard, our anatomical donors, and their loved ones expect and deserve."

"While Lodge’s sentencing concludes the criminal case against him, the process of healing from the pain he caused continues," the statement went on to say. "Our Anatomical Gift Program relies on the deep, selfless commitment of individual donors and their families to provide essential educational opportunities to medical students, surgeons, pharmacists, and many allied health professionals. We reaffirm our deep sorrow for the families of donors who may have been impacted."
