"Hug them a little tighter," grandfather of Maine bus victim speaks out

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/grandfather-of-maine-bus-accident-victim-speaks-out/69810111

Jason Small is grieving the loss of his grandson, Simon Gonzalez, who was killed by a school bus in Standish, Maine, on Tuesday.

" Grab your children, hug them a little tighter, kiss them good night, and every morning you wake them up and let them know you love them because you just do not know when that time's not going to come back," said Jason Small.

Small says Simon absolutely enjoyed life, taking him snowmobiling, ice fishing and camping. The 5-year-old was also described as a happy child who loved going to school.

"I tried with all my heart to protect that little boy," Small said.

The crash happened before 8 a.m. on Tuesday less than a half mile from Edna Libby Elementary School. Students were dismissed early that day, and regular classes were cancelled Wednesday.

The Cumberland County Sheriff's Office and several other agencies are investigating the crash.

The accident happened just over a week before Christmas, which Small says he's no longer celebrating this year.

"I took down all the Christmas ornaments, took the Christmas tree down," Small said.

In the face of tragedy, those who love Simon want change. They say they don't want any other family to lose their child to a school bus.

"Let's make his life mean something by saving another little kid and making sure that they get to go home to their family for Christmas," Small said.

Simon's loved ones are now pushing for a bill to be created that makes school buses safer. Some ideas they have include cameras or sensors on school buses.

"There needs to be a change in, not just Maine, but the whole United States," said Alishia Sessions, a family friend. "I'm hoping we can get it passed in Maine to create stricter requirements for buses."

Students at Edna Libby Elementary School are set to return back to class on Thursday.
