Police say Dover man fired gun while officers were at scene; felony charges filed

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/dover-new-hampshire-arrest-polly-ann-trailer-park/69808163

A Dover man is facing felony charges after he allegedly fired a gun while officers were responding to a reported disturbance at the trailer park where he lives.

Kevin Bourre, 52, faces felony charges of criminal threatening with a deadly weapon and reckless conduct.

Police originally responded to the Polly Ann Trailer Park before 11 p.m. Wednesday.

According to police, officers spoke with Bourre's roommate, who said Bourre threatened him with a firearm inside the home.

Police said that while officers were speaking with Bourre's roommate, Bourre left the home and fired a gunshot in "an unknown direction" before quickly reentering his home.

Police then issued a shelter-in-place order for the immediate area. After a standoff, Bourre surrendered to officers around 1:30 a.m.

After Bourre was taken into custody, police said they executed a search warrant at Bourre's home and recovered some evidence.

Prosecutors said that although Bourre has no prior record, they believe he is a danger to the public.

"When police spoke with the defendant, he indicated that he believed that he could have killed the victim with no repercussion because it would have been in self-defense," prosecutor Jessica Survelas said. "The state does think at this point in time there are no conditions that can ensure the safety of the victim and community given the circumstances."

During his arraignment, Bourre said he was already working on a way to move out of the home because of previous conversations with the victim. He said he isn't a danger to the public.

"Basically what happened is I was framed," he said. "I don't even need a lawyer right now."

The judge decided to keep Nourre in preventative detention. A probable cause hearing is scheduled for Dec. 26.

Anyone with information about the case is asked to call Dover police at 603-742-4646.
