Demolition denied for East Main Street buildings

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/demolition-denied-for-east-main-street-buildings/article_2ae2ce09-b867-4e39-97ec-15f2e9d31cae.html

WILMINGTON — Plans to demolish long boarded up buildings downtown were denied by the Development Review Board due to "insufficient information."

Eric Silverstein, owner of 3 to 5 East Main St. since 2013, sought approval for demolition and site stabilization in preparation for multi-story residential housing. He said Wednesday that he has appealed the DRB's decision.

Silverstein failed to provide a site plan and design plans, the decision states. The buildings, which are in the Historic Design Review District and listed in the National Register of Historic Places, sit across from the town offices and were affected by Tropical Storm Irene.

Previously, Silverstein received local approval to create a single family home with three bedrooms in the house next to Masonic Lodge. The other property is formerly known as the Professional Building.

The building at 3 East Main was "significantly damaged" by the 2011 flood, according to the most recent decision.

"An engineer's report was written on behalf of the applicant in 2018 shortly after their acquistion of the property and describes the post flood condition before any stabilization work by the new owner was undertaken," the decision states.

Silverstein "made some capital improvements" to the 5 East Main St.'s structure after the flood, according to the decision.

"In 2019 and 2023, this board approved applicant's repeated requests to preserve and restore this building," the decision states. "In the hearings on those two applications, exhibits outlined plans to preserve and restore the property in a historically thoughtful and appropriate manner. These adaptive re-use plans preserved the building's unique character and appeal and would have restored its place as a significant gateway building into the historic village of Wilmington and would have provided additional housing and business opportunities for the community."

Town Manager Scott Tucker said the town received Silverstein's notice of appeal to the Vermont Environmental Court on Tuesday. The case is not yet listed on the court calendar.

WILMINGTON — After permits were issued to the property owner for uncompleted projects in the past, the Development Review Board raised doubts over new plans to demolish 3 and 5 Main St.

DRB members raised doubts about the project at hearings, given how permits were issued to Silverstein for uncompleted projects at the properties in the past.

"It's an absolute travesty how long they've remained derelict, securing tax arrears and depressing our beautiful town," board member Diane Abate said of the buildings during a hearing in October.

At the hearing, Silverstein said the board previously rejected "an extremely viable plan over storefront windows that were actually historically appropriate for those buildings, which basically sucked the viability out of those buildings."

"And that's why I have very, very little confidence in this board, because you already sucked the entire viability out of this project once before," he added.

Asked at the hearing if he had any additional exhibits for the board, Silverstein said he's "not prepared to even retain my architect until I have a demolition approval."

"Obviously, I won't knock the buildings down until the plans are submitted," he said. "But without the demolition approval, there's no sense in even hiring architects."

Silverstein told the board he will not knock down the buildings until the state approves the plan. With a new law known as the HOME Act, he previously said he could bypass the DRB altogether.

With the new project, Silverstein previously said the town will lose "something old" but gain "something new that's actually a viable use for the town here." He called his proposal "a reasonable offer."
