Big warm-up comes with strong wind gusts and rain

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/17/big-warm-up-comes-with-strong-wind-gusts-rain/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Much warmer temperatures are heading our way, but the warmth comes with multiple weather impacts through Friday. We’re tracking for the potential for strong wind, rain, snowmelt and rising rivers Thursday night into Friday, followed by a sharp cooldown with snow and a possible flash freeze Friday afternoon and evening.

Timing:

We’ll see periods of gusty winds well ahead of the main storm system we are tracking Thursday into Friday. Strong southerly gusts up to 40 mph could impact the Champlain Valley and northern mountain slopes starting Tuesday night, remaining gusty into Wednesday morning.

Winds will become westerly Wednesday afternoon, shifting the focus for localized gusts between 35 and 40 mph to the high terrain and communities located along the eastern mountain slopes. Gusts won’t be as intense by Wednesday night.

Thursday will be mild and dry, becoming windy again. Highs will be in the low to mid 40s. Winds won’t be as strong in the morning, but will ramp up significantly during the afternoon. Strong southerly gusts could exceed 40 mph in the Champlain Valley, with localized gusts up to 50 mph in the high terrain and along the northern mountain slopes. This includes the Route 11 corridor in New York.

Strong southerly wind gusts will continue Thursday night. Plan for widespread gusts in excess of 30 mph, with ongoing gusts up to 50 mph in the Champlain Valley, high terrain and communities along the northern mountain slopes. Widespread rain will develop Thursday night, giving us a good soaking. Temperatures will stay very mild, warming up through the 40s overnight.

Temperatures will hit their peak early Friday morning, likely reaching the low 50s in spots. Some communities could get close to record warmth. Winds will remain gusty with ongoing periods of rain. Snow will continue to melt. Runoff from rain and snowmelt will cause rivers and streams to rise sharply.

Friday morning’s warmth won’t last very long. Much colder air will rush in from west to east during the day, causing temperatures to fall sharply through the afternoon and evening. Any leftover rain will transition to snow during the afternoon in the mountains, with sub-freezing air reaching the valleys by evening. Winds will shift westerly, remaining gusty.

By mid evening Friday, temperatures will fall below freezing areawide. Any puddles or wet surfaces will freeze Friday evening and overnight. Untreated roads and driveways could become slippery, especially where snow is still falling. Temperatures will drop into the teens overnight.

Wind impacts: Multiple rounds of gusty winds will impact our area between Tuesday night and Friday. The best chance for isolated power outages will be between Thursday afternoon and Friday in the areas that see gusts between 40 and 50 mph.

River impacts: Most of us will pick up 0.75″ to 1.5″ of rain Thursday night into Friday, with localized amounts up to 2″ possible. The combination of rain and snowmelt from warm temperatures will cause sharp rises on rivers and streams, but most should stay below flood stage unless there is an ice jam. A few rivers could approach flood stage Friday including the Ausable River, Mad River and Otter Creek, but widespread river flooding is not anticipated at this time.

Impacts from snow and possible flash freeze: Snow totals through Friday evening don’t look too impressive for most of us, but the mountains could see another 1″ to 3″, locally higher around Jay Peak. Wet, untreated surfaces could become slick Friday evening. There is still some uncertainty as to how much water will be left on the roads by the time temperatures drop below freezing. Leftover puddles could turn into slippery spots.

How to prepare: Charge your phone and electronic devices in case you lose power. Download the WCAX First Alert Weather App so you can continue receiving updates. You’ll be the first to know any time wind or flood alerts are issued for your area.

Make sure outdoor decorations, trash cans and anything that could blow away are secure. If you live in a flood-prone area along a river or stream, keep a close eye on the forecast and monitor water levels Friday.

Be sure to stay with the First Alert Weather Team for the latest updates throughout the week.
