VTSU launches farm-to-cafeteria initiative featuring local beef

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/17/vtsu-launches-farm-to-cafeteria-initiative-featuring-local-beef/

RANDOLPH CENTER, Vt. (WCAX) - Vermont is well known for helping launch farm-to-school programs. A new initiative within the Vermont State University system aims to bring some of those sensibilities to the cafeteria.

The goal is to put locally grown beef in the mouths of students across the region. And a new processing facility on VTSU’s Randolph campus is a key ingredient.

Facility director DeMetris Reed shows off the cuts of meat from a recent two-day training session. The processing facility aims to take its meat products statewide thanks to a grant from the Henry P. Kendall Foundation.

“Taking out multiple steps and reducing the number of hands touching your food,” Reed said.

The partnership with Sodexo and the Northeast Grass-Fed Beef Initiative will serve meat that’s cut in the lab on campus, expanding that blueprint to other VTSU campuses.

“People don’t know truly what it takes to raise these animals. To go from a dairy cow to get your gallon of milk. To go from a whole carcass to get your burger,” Reed said.

Anna Poulin, a second-generation farmer at the nearby Poulin Farm, has about 70 cows, and says sales are strong for locally-sourced beef. “Our butcher shop is a quarter mile up the road. The animals are not traveling far to get processed, and then it is in our store,” Poulin said.

But there are challenges, like the lack of processing facilities and storage space for cut meat. It also takes a long time before the meat is ready for the table.

“They need to grow, they need to go through a whole growing process. And that is the hardest thing -- knowing what you are going to sell two years down the road,” Poulin said.

But as the state-of-the-art plant feeds students on campus, it is also teaching the next generation of butchers, which industry experts say will help ease processing bottlenecks.

“We want them to be the next large slaughter and processing facility here in the state,” Reed said.

The long-term goal for the facility is to offer two-year associate degrees in meat processing. However, those course requirements are still being worked out.
