Some NH vehicle registration fees to rise January

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/new-state-fees-2026-nh/article_5be16e2c-27d0-4866-b6ca-b115764ec9b3.html

New Year’s Day won’t be all confetti, noisemakers and novelty glasses for Granite Staters. From log splitters to mopeds, state registration and licensing fees will be more expensive, too.

More than 50 new and increased state fees will go into effect on Jan. 1, which could result in higher costs for some Granite Staters, according to a New Hampshire Fiscal Policy Institute report. Other increases are set to kick in over the summer.

The new and increased fees could place financial constraints on people with low income, such as Medicaid recipients, the report says, making it harder to access services that “would not exist if the cost were funded through other revenue sources.”

Staring down a revenue shortfall in the state budget for the first time in four cycles, lower business tax revenues and the impending demise of the interest and dividends tax in 2027, lawmakers have turned to the increases and additions as part of an attempt to make ends meet in the state budget.

The fees encompass a wide range of areas, from agriculture to automobiles, and increases run anywhere from a few cents to tens of dollars. About half of the fees will go into effect on Jan.1, while many were changed over the summer with the signing of the state budget and few are still awaiting approval, according to the NHFPI study.

“For New Hampshire residents, these fees could mean higher out-of-pocket costs as the calendar turns over,” the study says.

Phil Sletten, research director at the policy institute, said some of the fees have not been adjusted in some time, as they were previously set in statute.

Sletten, who authored the report, said the fees make permitting processes, like registering a vehicle, less accessible for people with low incomes. The pool of payments encompass all sorts of vehicles and costs. Registration fees for agricultural vehicles are set to jump from $3.60 to $12, while motorcycle registration fees are rising from $15 to $30, and mopeds from $3 to $14.

“Making that vehicle legal now becomes more expensive,” Sletten said, as the higher fees eat “a higher percentage of the resources [those people] have available.”

Relying too much on revenue from fees could also make for some volatility, Sletten said, as that source of income could change quickly in response to economic activity.

Most of the raised fees in the Jan. 1 batch came from the Department of Safety. These increases are estimated to bring in about $31.5 million over the next 18 months, per the report.

New premiums for certain Medicaid enrollees paid by Children’s Health Insurance Program recipients would bring in about $14.3 million over the next budget cycle, whereas the upped Granite Advantage premiums would be about $5 million in revenue from fees, according to the study.

Medicaid recipients are set to incur monthly premiums anywhere between $60 and $100 per month, while families under the Children’s Health Insurance Program will pay between $190 and $270 a month.

Those increases require federal approval, and would go into effect July 1, 2026 if sanctioned.

Motor vehicle regulation and healthcare aren’t the only fields seeing an upturn in tolls. Prescription drug copayment hikes are estimated to bring in about $750,000 a year as well.

Price climbs for fees under the Departments of Environmental Services, Fish and Game and Agriculture, Markets, and Food — which run the gamut from licensing fees for companies selling seeds to registering dock structures — will generate under $10 million of revenue a year combined.
