Unhoused community members share their stories

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/residents-of-hundred-nights-shelter-keene-nh-share-stories-of-homelessness/article_f7bbb935-d712-4b54-af7d-bbfdb69070ee.html

Hundred Nights will hold a candlelight procession and memorial on Monday to remember unhoused community members who have died in the past year.

The procession, in observance of National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day, will begin at 5 p.m. in the shelter’s parking lot at 122 Water St. in Keene, said Development Manager Rose Gadbois. Those gathered will then walk to St. James Episcopal Church, at 44 West St.

“It’s just a walk, maybe 15 or 20 minutes, but it also ties into, hopefully, reminding people that there are people who are not going to go back home,” Gadbois said. “They’re not going to get into their car and drive home after this vigil; they’re going to have to be outside. It’s sort of a remembrance and a reminder to that.”

The memorial itself will take place at the church from 6-7 p.m. with interfaith leaders and community members reading aloud the names of those who have died both within Cheshire County and across the state.

On or around the winter solstice, the longest night of the year, communities across the country observe National Homeless Persons' Memorial Day. As of Monday, eight people connected to Cheshire County have died this year as a result of experiencing homelessness.

“People do not need to be outside without a warm, safe place to sleep,” Gadbois said.

Gadbois said the detrimental physical, mental and spiritual health effects of homelessness are "something that the community has and can continue to create solutions around."

Gadbois said some Hundred Nights guests form relationships with one another. When someone dies, she said it is a huge loss for their unhoused friends and shelter staff. For Gadbois, having a day to “remember these human beings whose lives really have mattered to so many people” is important. She said she hopes people practice empathy and avoid "othering" their unhoused neighbors.

"Experiencing homelessness is an experience," Gadbois said. "It’s not who someone is. It’s not their identity.”

Three unhoused community members shared their journeys into homelessness. These are their stories.

Bruce Brun, 59, who is staying at Hundred Nights, stands outside on Thursday at the shelter in Keene. “I’ve been here over a year,” Brun said. “I don’t want to be here, but there’s no other place I can go.”

“All I remember is drinking some iced coffee, coughing and waking up in the hospital,” Bruce Brun said of the 2021 truck crash that hospitalized him. “[I] woke up in the hospital laying flat on my back [with medical professionals] saying that I need to get surgery that night or else I wouldn’t be able to walk again; I’d be paralyzed from the waist down.”

While Brun was out getting gas one day last year, he looked up and “could see smoke coming from my neighborhood, so I drove back." When he entered his cul-de-sac, his house was ablaze. Brun said he believes a guest who was staying with him at the time accidentally caused the fire when he tried to light Brun's wood stove. Two days earlier, Brun’s home insurance had expired, he said.

“So, I lost my house, and then there was one night I just got depressed and didn’t care anymore,” said Brun, who was living in his car after losing his home in the fire. “I bought a fifth of vodka, drank it and drove. I wedged my car between a telephone pole and a house, drunk as a skunk.”

He totaled his vehicle and was arrested for driving under the influence. At 59, he lost his Class A Commercial Driver’s License, which he’d had since he was 22.

After he recovered, Brun went to Hundred Nights. He has been at the shelter ever since. “I lost absolutely everything,” he said. “I had no other place to go.”

Brun, who is twice married and twice divorced, said he has no relatives nearby who he can lean on. His 33-year-old daughter is raising his two grandchildren, who he has yet to meet, in South Carolina. “My daughter’s concerned about me, but it’s not her problem; it’s mine,” he said.

Brun said his unemployment and disability applications were both denied last month. After years of truck driving, his knees are shot, and he has a hard time getting up out of a chair. “They think I can still work, but not the way I am,” he said.

“When I was young, I used to jump out of trailers, the older guys saying, ‘You’re gonna regret it when you get older.’ But [I was] saying, ‘Nah, nah, nah.’ Now I do,” Brun said. “I hurt every morning when I get up, hurt at night when I try to go to sleep.”

After years of working nights, Brun already didn’t sleep well. The stress of being unhoused has only worsened his insomnia. On average, Brun sleeps only three to four hours a night. He said he is currently sorting out his unemployment and disability applications. Brun eventually plans to sell his property in North Walpole and use the money to purchase a vehicle so he has more options for the future.

“I’m just trying to survive,” he said.

David Moscillo, 39, who is staying at Hundred Nights, stands outside on Monday at the shelter in Keene. “Not every homeless is a drug addict. Not every homeless wants to be on the street,” Moscillo said. “There’s some people that through financials or economy was made homeless not of their own volition.”

After getting divorced in 2022, 39-year-old David Moscillo moved in with his sister and brother-in-law in Fremont. One day, he thought he heard his neighbor screaming. When he went to investigate, he was charged with trespassing, he said.

“I was smoking too much weed, and I got in trouble with the law,” Moscillo said.

Moscillo has had anxiety and depression since childhood. From 2006 to 2009 he served in the U.S. Marine Corps. “Two weeks into boot camp, my brother was killed in Iraq,” said Moscillo, who also has PTSD.

“You can’t go back and change the past,” he said. “If I could, I would jump in a time machine lickety-split and go back in time to before certain events happened and not do those same things.”

A few months ago, Moscillo spent 11 days at a behavioral health unit in Portsmouth. At the end of his stay, Moscillo got in a Lyft that brought him to Keene. For three weeks he lived on the streets. He camped in the woods, stayed in a cemetery and spent time “in a stairwell where it’s nice and warm … just trying to freakin’ sleep.”

A month ago, a bed opened up for him at Hundred Nights.

He said he’s seen some community members treat unhoused people as if they are “diseased.” Moscillo smokes cigarettes but said he’s given up his two biggest vices — alcohol and marijuana — since becoming unhoused. He said people's efforts to get out of homelessness may sometimes go unnoticed by others.

“There’s others who are homeless who want to get an apartment, want to get a job,” Moscillo said. “And people don’t see that. They see a transient with a backpack, and they think immediately, ‘There goes another drug addict.’”

He said Hundred Nights staff, including Operations Manager J Rollins, who is a veteran himself, has been helping him navigate resources for veterans. Moscillo is also in the process of applying for other state and federal assistance.

“I’m just trying to put my life back together,” he said.

Stacy Z., 65, who is staying at Hundred Nights, stands outside on Monday at the shelter in Keene. “Where do we regionally as a community, where do we as a state, where do we as a nation, where do we as human beings want to put our priorities financially to help those who are less fortunate?” Stacy said. “And, particularly at this time of year, what would Jesus do?”

When Stacy Z. moved from Virginia to Milford in October, she never imagined she’d be staying at Hundred Nights by December (Stacy requested using only her last initial). For two weeks after the 65-year-old began renting a room in her longtime friend’s home, everything was fine. Then, Stacy said, her friend “started to display erratic, volatile behavior." She told Stacy to leave.

Stacy lives with “acute, chronic, daily pain” and survives on social security and disability. She spent weeks applying for income-based affordable housing. Despite being a “highly resourceful person” who availed herself of all the help she could find, she still came up short, she said.

“I did everything I was supposed to and stayed on top of everything, and I felt like a hamster on a wheel, like that I was running as fast as I could and getting absolutely nowhere,” Stacy said.

Two weeks ago, Stacy got a call from Hundred Nights saying they had an accessible room available for her.

“Nobody gets here without trauma,” she said.

Stacy said she is “very, very sad and scared on the inside.” She was initially unsure of how she would handle being around other unhoused community members or face the stigma that accompanies being homeless. But she has been “pleasantly astonished” by the staff and unhoused community at large’s positive treatment. “In fact, I would say that I don’t think I’ve ever been treated as well by any group of people anywhere,” she said.

For the past 25 years, Stacy has been a nondenominational interfaith minister-at-large. She said being homeless has brought her closer to God and is making her “a more compassionate, caring, empathetic person.”

She said she believes more money needs to be allocated to case management. Stacy said individuals struggle to navigate the system’s bureaucracy and red tape, which limits their ability to advocate for themselves.

Stacy currently has about 50 housing applications pending at residences across the state. But for however long she’s at Hundred Nights, she wants to give back as much as she can. When someone new walks in, she said she goes out of her way to welcome them and show them around. Stacy said she's even working to start a peer support program at the shelter, an idea Hundred Nights leadership has supported.

“It’s all really, really hard. I look in the mirror and I’m like, ‘Oh my God. I look like my 80-year-old mother,” she said. “But I try to be upbeat and positive and cheerful and a role model and kind because the thing that people need more than anything else — other than food, clothing and shelter — is just love and kindness.”
