Local Police Departments Honor the Life of Mark Chamberlain

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-local-police-departments-honor-the-life-of-mark-chamberlain/

Police across Cheshire County honored the life of Deputy Mark Chamberlain, whose decades of service left a lasting impact on Marlborough, Swanzey and the region.

CHESHIRE COUNTY, N.H. ( MyKeeneNow ) Local police departments across Cheshire County and the Monadnock Region are honoring the life of Sheriff’s Deputy Mark Chamberlain after he battled a terminal illness. Chamberlain began his career with the Marlborough Police Department in 1993, and eventually moved to the Swanzey Police Department, which he retired from in 2019.

“When he asked me if I had an opening, as he was considering retiring from Swanzey in 2019, I knew without a doubt I had to have [Chamberlain] with us,” Cheshire County Sheriff Eli Rivera said. “His experience, reputation, knowledge and career were unquestionable.  He was a hard worker.”

Recently, multiple different police departments from across Cheshire County took part in a blue wave of support, with an estimated 75-100 cruisers taking part, driving from Optical Avenue in Keene through Marlborough, past Chamberlain’s residence.

The Marlborough Police Department, Chamberlain’s first stop in law enforcement, honored his impact on the town of Marlborough and the department, saying on Facebook that “[Chamberlain] helped countless people through the years and was a positive influence on our communities and our profession.”

Chamberlain spent the majority of his career with the Swanzey Police Department, where he spent time as a K-9 handler, corporal, and sergeant, before being promoted to Lieutenant in 2012, a position he held until his retirement from the station in 2019. In a post on Facebook, the SPD said “…We want to thank [Chamberlain] for his dedication and service to the town of Swanzey.”

Rivera recalls that Chamberlain was so proud of his son for following in his footsteps, as he became an officer with the Keene Police Department. He remembers giving Chamberlain grief that his son didn’t join the Sheriff’s Department, to which Chamberlain said “You can’t handle two of us.”

“His absence has already been felt at the Sheriff’s office,” Rivera said.

John Depin is the Morning News Anchor at the Monadnock Media Group. He can be reached at 603-352-9230, Ext. 338.

Rescuers were called to Mount Monadnock after two teenage hikers became stranded overnight in freezing conditions without proper gear.

Firefighters from Winchester and surrounding communities battled a Friday afternoon structure fire at a four-unit apartment building on Back Ashuelot Road, displacing 11 residents but causing no injuries.

The City of Keene received two bids for the Downtown Infrastructure project, both of them being more than eight million dollars over budget.

More than 30 volunteers gathered in Keene to build bikes and prepare holiday gifts for children in foster care, sparked by a surprise donation.
