Two Teen Hikers Rescued After Late-Night Emergency on Mount Monadnock

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-two-teen-hikers-rescued-after-late-night-emergency-on-mount-monadnock/

Rescuers were called to Mount Monadnock after two teenage hikers became stranded overnight in freezing conditions without proper gear.

JAFFREY, N.H. (MyKeeneNow) Two teenagers from Massachusetts were rescued late last week after a nighttime hike on Mount Monadnock took a dangerous turn, leaving one hiker unable to move in frigid conditions.

According to New Hampshire Fish and Game, conservation officers were alerted around 10 p.m. Dec. 19 after State Police dispatch received a report of hikers in trouble on the Ferry Spring Trail in Jaffrey. Officers were able to reach the group by cellphone and learned that two hikers had fallen into a brook and were soaked, cold and struggling to continue.

High winds and falling temperatures quickly turned the situation into a medical emergency, officials said. Conservation officers responded to the mountain along with volunteers from the Upper Valley Wilderness Response Team.

The two hikers in distress were identified as Shawn Paelian and Brendan Girouard, both 18 and from Winchendon, Mass. Authorities said the pair had started their hike around 5:30 p.m., after dark, and were not carrying food, water, warm clothing or cold-weather gear.

Rescuers reached the hikers shortly before 11 p.m. Paelian was able to walk down the mountain with assistance and was brought to a vehicle to warm up. Girouard, however, was suffering from cold-related injuries and could not continue on his own.

Rescue crews removed Girouard’s wet, frozen clothing and worked to warm him on the mountain. Officials said Girouard was also heavily intoxicated at the time of the rescue.

After several hours of treatment and assistance, Girouard was able to be transported off the mountain and was taken by Jaffrey-Rindge Memorial Ambulance Service to an awaiting ambulance around 2 a.m. Dec. 20. He was later transported to Heywood Hospital in Massachusetts.

Girouard was charged with minor in possession of alcohol. Fish and Game said it will recommend that the pair be billed for the cost of the rescue.

Officials are reminding hikers to plan carefully, carry appropriate gear and follow the hiker responsibility guidelines outlined by the state’s Hike Safe program before heading out onto New Hampshire trails, especially during winter conditions.

Nicole Colson is the editor-in-chief of MyKeeneNow. She can be reached at 603-352-9230, X-322.

Police across Cheshire County honored the life of Deputy Mark Chamberlain, whose decades of service left a lasting impact on Marlborough, Swanzey and the region.

Rescuers were called to Mount Monadnock after two teenage hikers became stranded overnight in freezing conditions without proper gear.

Firefighters from Winchester and surrounding communities battled a Friday afternoon structure fire at a four-unit apartment building on Back Ashuelot Road, displacing 11 residents but causing no injuries.

The City of Keene received two bids for the Downtown Infrastructure project, both of them being more than eight million dollars over budget.

More than 30 volunteers gathered in Keene to build bikes and prepare holiday gifts for children in foster care, sparked by a surprise donation.
