Brattleboro industrial facilities reported for past pretreatment permit noncompliance

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/brattleboro-industrial-facilities-reported-for-past-pretreatment-permit-noncompliance/article_654b2f62-d67d-480d-b349-870bbc06b0a6.html

BRATTLEBORO — Two industrial facilities in Brattleboro violated state pretreatment permits last year and responded with corrective actions.

On Friday, the Vermont Department of Environmental Conservation reported that 17 permit holders were found to be in "significant non-compliance" in 2024. Among the group were G.S. Precision and Commonwealth Dairy in Brattleboro.

G.S. Precision's error involved "a sample collection not having all analytes analyzed," said Heather Collins, program manager at DEC. The aerospace and defense machining company also submitted its monthly reports late on two occasions.

"The facility attributed these issues to an incomplete handoff of information with staff turnovers and has responded with implemented corrective actions to enter sampling and reporting reminders into their computerized maintenance management system," Collins said.

Commonwealth Dairy had instances of exceeding its permit limit for biochemical oxygen demand or BOD, Collins said. The company also sent BOD samples that were either analyzed too late or didn't meet the temperature collection requirements, rendering them invalid between March 31, 2024 and Sept. 31, 2024.

Corrective actions at Commonwealth Dairy included a pump gasket repair, completion of the upgrade of its treatment system, additional wastewater technicians and revised sampling procedures.

Collins said the permits are meant to ensure that the receiving facility, the Brattleboro wastewater treatment plant, isn't being overloaded.

"If they are not treating their waste to an appropriate level, they can cause some issues, some upset, some interference issues," Collins said.

Compliance can change day by day and reporting lags about a month behind, Collins said. She described the Brattleboro facilities as acting timely and accordingly with corrective action.

Both plants have had the occasional violation, Brattleboro Public Works Director Dan Tyler said.

"Commonwealth recently did a big expansion to their pretreatment process," Tyler said. "They had outgrown what they had there, so that helped greatly."

With improved processes associated with the upgrade, Tyler said the town is seeing better water quality from Commonwealth Dairy.

Neither plant has triggered the town to violate its discharge permit with the state.

"Both of them run a pretty good operation," Tyler said. "Everyone has the occasional snafu."

Any plant that produces a high strength waste can run into a violation of the type reported by DEC, Tyler said. He noted G.S. Precision's contains more metals and Commonwealth Dairy's involves high BOD, fats, oils and greases.

Attempts to reach G.S. Precision and Commonwealth Dairy were unsuccessful.

Other facilities that exceeded their pretreatment permit limits included Agri-Mark Inc. in Middlebury; Ben & Jerry's in Waterbury; Butternut Mountain Farm in Morrisville; New England Precision in Randolph; and St. Albans Creamery LLC in St. Albans. Other facilities that didn't submit reports or documents on time include Ben & Jerry's; Drew's LLC in Chester; Four Quarters Brewing in Winooski; Lost Nation Brewery in Morrisville; New England Precision; Plumrose USA, Inc. in Swanton; Randolph Landfill; Rock Art Brewery in Morrisville; Swan Valley Cheese of Vermont in Swanton; and Vermont Soy LLC in Hardwick.

“We view our industrial facilities as key partners in environmental stewardship," DEC Commissioner Misty Sinsigalli said in the news release. "Fulfilling these permit requirements is how we work together to safeguard the health of Vermont's lakes, rivers, and wetlands."

DEC said it's "committed to helping permittees navigate their requirements successfully. To that end, direct communication and responsiveness to permit-related questions is prioritized. When issues do arise, the goal is to provide clear, actionable guidance through DEC’s notification process — giving facilities the specific steps they need to correct the course immediately and avoid the need for further enforcement."
