Brattleboro Police dispatcher accused of assaulting a family member

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/brattleboro-police-dispatcher-accused-of-assaulting-a-family-member/article_38ab79a1-cd82-42c2-ad6d-ac81cb0655f3.html

BRATTLEBORO — The supervising dispatcher of the Brattleboro Police Department was arraigned in court Monday, accused of using his position to keep a household member from calling emergency services.

On Sunday night, troopers responded to a home on Kipling Road in Dummerston to a report that Henry Scott, 40, had assaulted a family member.

Troopers were told by the complainant that Scott had been drinking all day and had also consumed marijuana and Adderall.

According to court documents, Scott punched the complainant, poured seltzer on her, spit on her in front of children, and whipped her with a sweatshirt.

“This defendant attempted to receive oral sex in exchange for essentially relenting in his behavior,” said Jared Bianchi, of the Bennington County State’s Attorney’s Office, which received the case after the Windham County State’s Attorney’s Office recused itself. “His attempt to have the victim acquiesce to his request in order to improve his behavior toward her was necessarily an attempted sexual assault.”

Bianchi also told the court that Scott used his position with the police department to try to convince the complainant not to call 911.

“He stated that he would call them back and tell them that they didn’t have to come,” he said.

The complainant also told troopers she bit Scott when he took her phone away.

“She advised she sleeps with her cell phone and vehicle keys under her because he always threatens to take those from her so she doesn't have an out,” states the affidavit.

Scott declined to speak with the troopers and refused a breath alcohol test. He was originally cited with domestic assault, interference to access to emergency services, extortion, stalking, attempted sexual assault, and obstruction of justice.

Judge Michael Kainen dismissed two of those charges, extortion and attempted sexual assault, saying he did not find probable cause for those charges.

Kainen said the affidavit had not “connected the dots” to support the charges but added that the state could file an amended affidavit if it decides to pursue those charges as well.

Scott was represented by Mimi Brill, supervising attorney in the Windham County Public Defender’s Office, who entered a not guilty plea on behalf of Scott.

Scott was released without bail but on the conditions he not come into contact with any of the witnesses in the case, that he not visit the home on Kipling Road, and that he will need supervision in any visits to any minor children.

Town Manager John Potter told the Reformer he could not comment on confidential personnel matters.
