'No credible information' received on where Brown University shooter could be, authorities say

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/no-credible-info-on-brown-university-shooter/69789761

Authorities held a news conference at 5 p.m. Tuesday at the Providence Public Safety Complex to provide an update on the investigation into the shooting on the Brown University campus.

A gunman opened fire Saturday afternoon inside a classroom in the Barus and Holley building, which houses the School of Engineering and physics department.

Two students were killed, and nine others were injured.

The FBI and Providence police released new videos that show the movements of a person of interest in the shooting. The FBI Boston X account posted a timeline video, which can be seen below, but later deleted the post. Providence police, meanwhile, posted a video that shows enhanced views of the person of interest's movements.

See the enhanced video of the person of interest here:

See the FBI's timeline video here:

Officials urged the public to focus on individual's body movements in the videos to help with identification.

Police said the person of interest was seen in the area as early as 10 a.m. Saturday, several hours before the shooting, which happened shortly after 4 p.m. Providence police Col. Oscar Perez said investigators believe the individual may have been scouting the area beforehand.

Authorities said they still do not know the identity of the person of interest.

Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Neronha addressed questions about the lack of surveillance footage from inside the building. Police said there is no video showing the person of interest inside the Barus and Holley building.

Neronha said the shooting occured in an older, rear section of the building with limited cameras. Students fled into a newer portion of the building that has more surveillance. He said authorities have released all video they believe most clearly shows the person of interest.

As the investigation continues, Neronha asked the public for patience as authorities work to bring justice to victims.

Providence Mayor Brett Smiley said officials have not received any credible threats to the campus or the city related to the shooting.

Here is an updated look at the facts of the case and what we're hoping to learn.

A new image of the person of interest was released Tuesday afternoon:

--
