Alan Jackson, who defended Karen Read, now representing Nick Reiner in murder case

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/alan-jackson-nick-reiner-karen-read/69777619

California attorney Alan Jackson, who helped defend Karen Read in her two Massachusetts trials, is now representing Nick Reiner, who is accused of killing his parents, including filmmaker Rob Reiner.

Rob and Michele Singer Reiner were found dead Sunday at their home in Los Angeles. Investigators believe the couple died from stab wounds, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press. The official, who was briefed on the investigation, could not publicly discuss the details and spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity.

Nick Reiner, 32, is being held without bail on suspicion of murder.

Jackson said his new client would not appear in court on Tuesday for medical reasons. Jackson told reporters outside the courthouse that he did not know what the medical issue was, but he said Nick Reiner would not be in court before Wednesday.

Jackson's law partner, Elizabeth Little, who also worked on the Read case, was with Jackson as he left the courthouse on Tuesday.

After Karen Read's acquittal, Jackson subsequently joined her legal team for the ongoing civil cases. He also previously represented Harvey Weinstein at his Los Angeles trial.

Rob Reiner was the Emmy-winning star of the sitcom "All in the Family" who went on to direct films including "When Harry Met Sally..." and "The Princess Bride." He was an outspoken liberal activist for decades. Michele Singer Reiner was a photographer, movie producer and advocate for LGBTQ+ rights. They had been married for 36 years.

Three months ago, Nick Reiner was photographed with his parents and siblings at the premiere of his father's film "Spinal Tap 2: The End Continues."

He had spoken publicly of his struggles with addiction, cycling in and out of treatment facilities with bouts of homelessness in between through his teen years. Rob and Nick Reiner explored — and seemed to improve — their relationship through the making of the 2016 film, "Being Charlie."

Nick Reiner co-wrote and Rob Reiner directed the film about the struggles of an addicted son and a famous father. It was not autobiographical but included several elements of their lives.

"It forced us to understand ourselves better than we had," Rob Reiner told the AP in 2016. "I told Nick while we were making it, I said, 'You know, it doesn't matter, whatever happens to this thing, we won already.'"

The Associated Press contributed to this report.
