Students, staff and community members visit memorial site at Brown University to mourn victims

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/students-staff-visit-brown-university-memorial/69779865

Students, staff and community members continue to visit memorials across the Brown University campus following a shooting Saturday afternoon.

The largest memorial stands outside the Barus and Holley building, where the shooting occurred. The building houses the school of engineering and the physics department.

Two students, Ella Cook and Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokov, were killed when a gunman opened fire in a classroom.

Brown University President Christina Paxson described Cook, a sophomore, as passionate and intellectually curious. She was an active member of her church and served as vice president of the university's College Republicans of America chapter.

Umurzokov, a freshman, dreamed of becoming a neurosurgeon and was driven by a desire to make a positive impact on the world. Paxson said he was driven, conscientious and disciplined.

The university said it is exploring ways to memorialize Cook and Umurzokov in the coming weeks.

Nine other students were wounded in the shooting. Five are in critical but stable condition at Rhode Island Hospital, one remains in critical condition, one is in stable condition and two have been discharged.

The Providence Police Department said an increased police presence will remain on campus and in nearby neighborhoods.

Caleb Ukaonu, a doctoral student at Brown University, said the added security brings mixed emotions.

"I guess in some senses, you know, you're like, it's definitely, like, objectively making it more safer, but I guess just like, seeing it all around is like, just kind of, you know, you still have like, that, like, feeling that it's like, not safe and, you know, stressful because there needs, you know, to be this kind of presence," Ukaonu said.

Several students and community members said the most difficult part is knowing the shooter has not been caught.

"I don't know. It's crazy. Just, you know, not sleeping great the last few days. Just watching the news. You know, it's horrible what's happened," said Scott Griffy, a Brown University graduate student.

"It's just, you know, devastating, scary. Beautiful to see how the community's coming together. Providence being Providence and Brown being Brown," said Bess Marcus, a Providence resident. "But just, you know, unbelievable that it's happening here."

As students leave campus for winter break, they said it will feel different when they return in a few weeks.

"It'll be weird when things are back to normal, though. It'll still be a little weird," Griffy said.
