Mad River Glen seeks $2.5M to buy adjacent land for backcountry skiing

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/mad-river-glen-seeks-25m-buy-adjacent-land-backcountry-skiing/

FAYSTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Mad River Glen is eyeing an expanded footprint, seeking to buy adjacent land that would add over 1,100 acres of skiable terrain to the co-op’s property.

Mad River Glen is known as an old-school ski area, unique in the U.S. because it’s a cooperative.

In 1995, the Mad River Corporation had a vision to sell the mountain to skiers and form a co-op. However, the corporation continues to have a first right of refusal to a piece of adjacent land to the ski area, something the co-op wants to buy.

The parcel surrounds the ski area , including the 19th & 20th terrain, an area north of Route 17, and across Route 17 from the Battleground. It’s owned by the Mad River Corporation, the family of a previous owner of the ski area, who helped form the co-op.

Co-op General Manager Matt Lillard says shareholders pushed to exercise their first right of refusal when the corporation received an offer.

“This is our one and only time to have one owner of all the property as originally envisioned, and it was our duty, and we should go after and do it,” Lillard said.

The price they need to match is $2.5 million. The co-op doesn’t have that much cash on hand, so they’re turning to shareholders and the ski community. Their theory is that if everyone contributes “a buck an acre” — roughly $1,000 — they will reach their goal.

“We realize some people can do more, some people can do less, but overall, if we can get near that point, we’ll be able to purchase this property,” Lillard said. “I think we will get there.”

They’ve raised $500,000 in the last two weeks.

“As far as I know, we should be buying it,” said Lucia Putnam, a co-op shareholder from the start. “I think it’s very important that we own the property because for protection and if somebody else bought it, they can do all kinds of stuff with it. I don’t know what they’d do.”

The co-op says they want to preserve the land and keep it open for backcountry skiing, an appealing idea for Duxbury’s Jay Ziskrout and all those who cherish skiing off the beaten trail.

“I think that would be fantastic -- more backcountry resources for those of us who like to earn our turns,” Ziskrout said.

The co-op hopes to secure all the money before Jan. 15.
