Upper Valley health center relies on donations to stay open

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/upper-valley-health-center-relies-donations-stay-open/

CANAAN, N.H. (WCAX) - A rural health center in the Upper Valley that was nearly forced to close is relying on community donations to keep its doors open while working to build a sustainable patient base.

The Mascoma Community Health Center in Canaan, New Hampshire, opened in 2017 to fill a health care gap in the community. The facility provides both dental and primary care services without turning anyone away, regardless of insurance or ability to pay.

“I am a single father, self-employed, you can only make up what you can make up,” said Luc Pinon of Warren, New Hampshire, who traveled more than half an hour with his son Will for a dental visit.

The center draws patients from hours away because they cannot get services elsewhere, according to Dental Director Rick Vega.

“There is not financial plans that can be met for them that make things work. We try to do the best we can to do that,” Vega said.

The nonprofit facility is struggling financially because it is not a federally qualified health center, which typically receive significantly higher federal reimbursement rates. That’s because Health First, a federally qualified partner agency, recently pulled out.

“Primary care isn’t sustainable in this country right now,” said Dr. Ben Gardner of the Mascoma Community Health Center.

The center recently raised roughly $400,000 in four months to pay the medical bills short term and build up the dental side of the practice.

Without the health center, doctors say there will be both financial and health consequences for patients.

“They end up getting no care and treatable conditions like blood pressure or diabetes end up untreated,” Gardner said.

The long-term plan is to use revenues from the dental side to subsidize primary care, but officials say they cannot do it without patients like the Pinons.

“We feel like we are going to be properly treated and at the right cost,” Pinon said.

Officials say they will always need community support. Whether that includes financial support will depend on whether they can increase the number of patients receiving care. They hope to triple the number of patients over the next three years.
