Vt. property taxes set for another double-digit increase

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/vt-property-taxes-set-another-double-digit-increase/

MONTPELIER, Vt. (WCAX) - Vermont’s Tax Department forecasts an average 12% property tax increase based on projections from two-thirds of preliminary school budgets.

Per-pupil spending is up nearly $1,000 over last year, about a 7% jump. If the increase takes effect, Vermonters’ property taxes for education will have gone up nearly 41% over the past five years.

The increases come as Vermont schools report declining enrollment and test scores.

“We are contending with two enormous challenges: property taxes that families cannot afford and an education system that local communities cannot sustain,” Vt. Education Secretary Zoie Saunders said.

Members of the governor’s cabinet said Monday that Vermont’s complex school funding system, ballooning school spending, declining student enrollment and declining test scores are reaching a breaking point.

“Fifteen thousand less kids in our school system and the cost increase over that time in the 20-year window is up almost a billion dollars,” Vt. Tax Commissioner Bill Shouldice said.

They claim another year of projected double-digit increases should spur the Legislature to double down on a controversial effort to reform schools and consolidate districts.

While visiting a tree farm on Monday, the governor stressed the current path is unsustainable and is not serving kids .

“Taxes have gone up over the last 5-10 years about 40% and it’s just plain unsustainable,” said Gov. Phil Scott, R-Vermont.

In a statement, Senate President Phil Baruth and House Speaker Jill Krowinski doubled down on the reforms. Baruth said there is a need “to advance reforms that will foster an equitable education system for all of Vermont’s children at a price that’s affordable, predictable and stable for Vermont’s families. But we will need Vermonters’ support to make it happen.”

Krowinski said, “We can make real, meaningful change to provide better educational opportunities for our kids. Taking no action is not an option.”

We don’t yet know how rank-and-file members on both sides of the aisle in the 150-member House will react. Last election cycle brought big changes to the Vermont House. Republicans now control 55 seats while Democrats control 92. That election was based on education property tax concerns.

There remains the open question of what will happen given it’s an election year.

The projections are based on two-thirds of Vermont schools and could change if budgets come in lower or if the state sets aside money to buy down the tax rate.
