Multiple Police Departments Take Part in ‘Blue Wave of Support’

Site: MYKEENENOW
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://mykeenenow.com/news/219912-multiple-police-departments-take-part-in-blue-wave-of-support/

Police across Cheshire County joined a Blue Wave of Support, honoring Cheshire County Sheriff's Department Deputy Mark Chamberlain as they drove past his home.

CHESHIRE COUNTY, N.H. ( MyKeeneNow ) Multiple police departments across Cheshire County took part in a “Blue Wave of Support” for Cheshire County Sheriff Department Deputy Mark Chamberlain, who is suffering from a serious illness. The event included officers from multiple different departments and processed through Optical Avenue in Keene through Marlborough, past Chamberlain’s residence.

Cheshire County Sheriff Eli Rivera said that he wanted to show “support and love for Dep. Chamberlain,” and that a blue wave, with Chamberlain’s years of law enforcement experience, “ would be appropriate.”

In all, an estimated 75-100 cruisers came out in support of Chamberlain, according to Rivera. “ After talking to other police agencies and getting the family’s okay to do [so], the call went out on Monday, that a Blue Wave was to occur on Tuesday at 4:30,” Rivera said.

Facebook posts from the Chesterfield, Peterborough and Walpole Police Departments show videos of dozens of police cars with their lights flashing. “The overwhelming show of support was very emotional,” Rivera said. “…we are a family and are thinking of him.”

Chamberlain was formerly with the Swanzey Police Department before becoming a Deputy in the Cheshire County Sheriff’s Department.

In a post on Facebook, the CCSD thanked the participating departments, stating “When the call went out, they came. Thank you.”

John Depin is the Morning News Anchor at the Monadnock Media Group. He can be reached at 603-352-9230, Ext. 338.

Emergency responders were called to a reported gunshot injury at Jiffy Mart on Main Street in Walpole Wednesday morning, with a medical helicopter dispatched to transport the patient to Cheshire Medical Center.

Eversource says New Hampshire customers may see a modest dip in electric bills early in 2026 as delivery rates fall and supply costs stay steady.

State LCHIP grants totaling nearly $224,000 will support forest conservation in Nelson and the restoration of Winchester’s historic National Bank building.

Free holiday parking begins Thursday in downtown Keene and surrounding streets, offering shoppers a break on meter fees through Christmas Day, with normal parking rules still enforced.
