AG's office clears Liot Hill of wrongdoing

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/ag-rules-on-karen-liot-hill/article_6b719ed2-8c0e-48c3-b195-2d915d9b6da8.html

N.H. Executive Councilor Karen Liot Hill didn’t break the law by sending emails looking for people harmed by new voter identification requirements, the state attorney general’s office has determined.

Brendan A. O’Donnell, a senior assistant attorney general, said in an email Thursday that “based on the text of the e-mails and the interviews with the recipients, this office cannot conclude that the e-mails constituted a misuse of position or otherwise violated the executive branch ethics code.

“The matter is closed.”

Liot Hill, whose district takes in much of the Monadnock Region, is the only Democrat on the five-member Executive Council, which approves state contracts and confirms official appointments.

Republican leaders alleged that Liot Hill’s August emails amounted to an improper use of her office and an attempt to help lawyers find plaintiffs so they could sue the state over Senate Bill 287.

Republican-backed SB 287, which Gov. Kelly Ayotte signed into law on Aug. 1, requires that people present a copy of their photo identification when applying for an absentee ballot. If applying through the mail, they will need to provide a copy of their ID or have the application notarized.

Proponents say the new requirements match those for in-person voting, where people have to show ID before they are given a ballot. Opponents said this isn't needed and makes it harder to vote absentee.

Liot Hill, of Lebanon, said Friday she was pleased with the attorney general's office finding, but already knew she hadn’t done anything wrong.

“I think this just underscores how partisan all these attacks are,” she said.

Liot Hill said she sent the emails after a constituent asked that she make introductions between an attorney working on voting-rights issues and people representing groups affected by the new law.

“I am working with some folks who are trying to identify voters that will be impacted by SB 287, and I was thinking that this may affect older folks / mobility-challenged individuals,” she said in several emails, which copied in Tina Meng Morrison, an associate in the Elias Law Group of Washington, D.C., which represents a variety of Democratic organizations.

James MacEachern, chairman of the N.H. Republican State Committee, complained to the attorney general’s office about the emails on Aug. 14.

He issued a brief statement on Friday:

"This report, among others, continues to raise serious questions about Councilor Liot Hill’s judgment and brazen willingness to push ethical boundaries with her conduct."

Rep. Joe Sweeney, R-Salem, who also did not immediately return a call for comment has filed a bill seeking Liot Hill's impeachment.

She said the impeachment attempt is just another political exercise.

“Now the House Republicans are trying to impeach me for something that the attorney general has even said is baseless,” Liot Hill said.

O’Donnell said he reviewed emails Liot Hill sent on Aug. 5.

The recipients were Charles Saia, executive director of the Governor's Commission on Disability; Isadora Rodriguez-Legendre, executive director of the N.H. Council on Developmental Disabilities; Strategies for Disability Equity, a private organization; Community Action Partnership of Hillsborough and Rockingham Counties; and Open Democracy, a private organization.

There is a state law prohibiting certain public employees from using government property or equipment to try to sway voters on something to be decided in an election, but Liot Hill’s letters did not involve anything to be decided at the polls, O’Donnell said in his email to MacEachern.

He noted that two of Liot Hill’s letters went to fellow state executive branch officials — Saia and Rodriguez-Legendre.

“It would not be appropriate for an executive branch official to use their position to secure a privilege or advantage for another person or entity, such as the Elias Law Group, to which that entity was not entitled,” O’Donnell said.

But he said that Liot Hill merely asked and did not command anybody to do anything. Ultimately Saia said he had nothing to offer and Rodriguez-Legendre said she didn’t know any voters who had reported being impacted by SB 287.

“Even though Councilor Liot Hill's e-mails were not phrased as a command and neither recipient interpreted those e-mails as a command, sending this type of e-mail from her government e-mail address to other executive branch officials created a risk that these officials would interpret her requests as commands,” O’Donnell said.

“All executive branch officials should use care to avoid acting in any way that would create an appearance of impropriety.”

In August, three visually impaired New Hampshire residents filed a lawsuit against the new absentee voting requirements, saying it would require them to travel to a local clerk’s office, pay for a notary or access technology.

Rockingham County Superior Court Judge David Ruoff dismissed the lawsuit last week, finding that the new requirements were “reasonable, nondiscriminatory identification burdens on absentee voters to protect the state’s interest in securing elections and limiting voter fraud.”
