Last week in The Sentinel

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/last-week-in-the-sentinel/article_bd021ce6-9427-4af7-b937-1574091f5fcc.html

MONDAY, Dec. 15

Due to recently announced restrictions, fire trucks carrying hoses, ladders and first responders will have to take a detour to access parts of East Keene in an emergency, the Keene Fire Department said.

The Roxbury Street detour was put in place earlier this month after the city imposed a 10-ton limit on two Keene bridges that offer a more direct route to that neighborhood.

As a wintry mix fell outside Wednesday, eight children eagerly gathered around author and naturalist Susie Spikol as she brought them into her magical world.

To start her Winter Wonderland Gnome & Fairy Workshop at the Hancock Town Library, Spikol had participants sit in a circle and take turns sharing their names and something they really like about winter.

TUESDAY, Dec. 16

This year, area Christmas tree farms reported a good crop of trees, despite the drought that’s plagued Cheshire County.

While Crescendo Acres Farms in Surry lost some young plants to the drought, owner Russ Fiorey said the seedlings planted this year had no trouble.

Keene homeowners will soon receive their property tax bills now that the tax rate — the second highest in the state — has been finalized through the N.H. Department of Revenue Administration.

With most rates now set for towns and cities across the state, Keene’s overall rate of $34.37 is second only to Charlestown’s, which is at $36.54.

About $224,000 is coming to the Monadnock Region from the 2025 LCHIP awards, announced recently in Concord.

The money will go to help conservation and preservation work at the Nelson Highlands Forest and the Winchester National Bank.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 17

Hundred Nights will hold a candlelight procession and memorial on Monday to remember unhoused community members who have died in the past year.

Ahead of the event, three community members who are unhoused shared with The Sentinel their journeys into homelessness.

School officials say their new email deletion policy seeks to streamline recordkeeping and expedite compliance with public record laws. But a First Amendment lawyer says it could hinder right-to-know requests.

The new policy, passed by the SAU 29 school board and covering central office staff, requires that each employee decide whether an email is important enough to be archived and saved, or if it can be deleted within 60 days.

To encourage shopping downtown this holiday season, the city of Keene will offer free parking starting later this week.

Parking in certain metered spots in and around downtown will be free from Thursday through Christmas and again on New Year’s Day.

THURSDAY, Dec. 18

One man was taken into custody and another was injured Wednesday morning in a shooting on Main Street in Walpole, police said.

In a news release Wednesday afternoon, police said the shooting followed an altercation between two men “that appeared to have stemmed from a roadway-related incident.”

A rift in New Hampshire’s Republican Party was on display during veto override day at the state House of Representatives.

While Republicans control the House, Senate and governor’s office, Wednesday made clear that a majority of House Republicans have some sharp disagreements with Gov. Kelly Ayotte.

FRIDAY, Dec. 19

A 75-year-old with Alzheimer’s who broke her hip while living alone. A social service worker helping families navigate bureaucratic red tape. A county-owned nursing home with a multimillion-dollar deficit that grows each year.

All have one thing in common: They’ve been waiting months for the N.H. Department of Health and Human Services to catch up on its backlog of applications for long-term care coverage through Medicaid.

Lawmakers will consider next year a bill that would prohibit New Hampshire public colleges and universities from banning guns on their campuses.

State Rep. Sam Farrington claimed the recent fatal shooting at Brown University shows that banning guns on campus makes students more vulnerable to violence.

The Keene transfer station is now charging a minimum disposal fee of $30, the city said.

These changes come as the transfer station looks to streamline its services and account for increasing costs, said Duncan Watson, assistant director of public works.
