Goffstown School District approves policy on AI deepfake creation

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/goffstown-school-ai-deepfake-120325/69625354

A new policy passed by the Goffstown School Board aims to regulate images made with artificial intelligence after rumors spread that deepfake images of students had been made.

The policy passed unanimously, but for parents who say their children were affected by the explicit images, it's a fight that doesn't stop at their own school.

Krystal Labranche said Mountain View Middle School called about her daughter in October.

"She walked in the door. I said I had gotten a call. She started to cry," Labranche said. "And I told her we would handle it."

There were rumors of deepfake images that had been made of three girls. Such images use generative AI to create fake images of real people.

"They didn't deserve this," Labranche said. "But it affects the families. It affects everybody."

Parents started a crusade online and at school board meetings to push for control.

"This is a real thing that's currently happening right now," said parent Leiann Berlinguette. "And it's not just local. It's not just New Hampshire. You can look them up on the internet and type in 'deepfakes,' and it's story after story after story."

The Goffstown School Board approved the new deepfake policy on Monday. It's modeled after similar policies in Bedford and at Pinkerton Academy that include definitions of deepfakes, a tiered approach to conduct and consequences.

Labranche and Berlinguette said something else could be done that would create more change.

"If we're not educating ourselves and we're not educating our kids about the benefits and also how hurtful and damaging it can be, things like this are going to continue to happen," Labranche said.

A state law makes deepfake creation and distribution a felony.

Goffstown police did not return a request for comment. Goffstown's superintendent said he had nothing to add to Monday's discussion.
