Jurors shown gruesome photos of tools, evidence in Brian Walshe murder trial

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brian-walshe-murder-trial-live-updates-december-3/69619470

Prosecutors called a crime lab specialist to testify about gruesome evidence on Wednesday afternoon in the murder trial of Brian Walshe, the Massachusetts father accused of killing and dismembering his wife. He walked jurors through numerous photos of tools and textiles with "red and brown stains."

The Cohasset man is accused of killing and dismembering Ana Walshe, 39, around New Year's Day in 2023. Prosecutors allege that Brian Walshe disposed of his wife's remains in dumpsters around the area.

Massachusetts State Police Crime Lab Specialist Davis Gould testified about finding evidence of blood inside of the Walshe family's Volvo. He also introduced the photos and explained documentation procedures for evidence recovered by investigators, including tools like a hatchet and hacksaw.

Several of the photos showed clothing or carpeting bearing red and brown stains.

Gould was also asked to verify numerous pieces of physical evidence, including personal items belonging to Ana Walshe. Examples of the items include pieces of jewelry, a stained bathrobe and stained slippers bearing "trace materials."

Earlier in the day, a parade of witnesses testified to evidence about Ana Walshe's travels and Massachusetts State Police Trooper Nicholas Guarino, a forensic expert, concluded his testimony about what was found on family digital devices.

On cross-examination from the defense, Guarino said that despite the search made of "how to remove a hard drive from Apple laptop" none of the devices turned over to police appeared to be tampered with.

Despite a series of grim searches starting at 4:52 a.m. on Jan. 1, 2023, such as "best way to dispose of a body" and "how long before a body starts to smell," the word "murder" didn't appear in those searches until hours later.

As jury selection was beginning two weeks ago, Brian Walshe abruptly changed his plea to guilty on charges of misleading police and moving his wife's body.

The change of plea is also an admission that Brian Walshe knows his wife is dead, which means that his defense team cannot argue there is no proof of her death.

Ana Walshe was last seen alive on New Year's Eve in 2022. What began as a missing person search in Cohasset and Washington, D.C., quickly escalated. Within days, Brian Walshe was arrested and accused of misleading investigators.

Prosecutors said he killed his wife, believing she was having an affair, then dismembered and disposed of her body, which was never found.

In the weeks after Ana Walshe disappeared, investigators searched a trash facility and found a hacksaw and a knife with blood and bone fragments.

Other evidence includes cleaning products Brian Walshe allegedly purchased and internet searches, such as "10 ways to dispose of a dead body if you really need to."
