Brattleboro kicks off holidays with inaugural Festival of Miniatures

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/03/brattleboro-kicks-off-holidays-with-inaugural-festival-miniatures/

BRATTLEBORO, Vt. (WCAX) - The town of Brattleboro is home to about 12,000 people. Located near the Massachusetts border, it’s known for the Harris Hill Ski Jump and a thriving arts and culture scene. And as Cat Viglienzoni found out in this week’s Vermont’s Own, the “little things” this holiday season aim to bring in big business for the Windham County community.

On the first day of the inaugural Brattleboro Festival of Miniatures on Monday, locals were already calling it a sizeable success.

“I am gobsmacked at the talent and creativity that folks who had never worked in miniature before summoned up somehow to create the personality of their store or storefront to the public,” said Melany Kahn, the festival’s brainchild.

She loves working on miniatures and thought dolling up the downtown would be a great way to draw people in for holiday shopping. “At the end of the day, it’s all about getting people from one side of the glass to the other side of the glass,” Kahn said.

At the Shoe Tree shop on Main Street, a shoebox apartment for felted rodents spans the front window. Artists took donated shoe boxes from the store and brought them to life.

“Oh, it’s definitely bringing people in. People over the weekend — it was a busy weekend anyway -- but so many people came in and had to comment on the window, and they loved the way it looked,” said the store’s Ralph Ellis.

Each business participating brings its own unique flair to its display. The scenes may be mini, but the effort is massive. Downtown Brattleboro Alliance Executive Director Kate Trzaskos points to a spinning dollhouse filled with whimsical wee works from 110 local artists, many of whom hadn’t previously worked in miniature. She says the businesses also stretched their creative muscles to help bring the community together.

“Seeing them collectively is so overwhelming -- in the best way possible,” Trzaskos said. “To see them engage in this way, to take on this challenge has really been extraordinary.”

To see them all, visitors would need a whole day. A handy map points out the 87 scaled-down scenes throughout the whole community.

“It started to just spread and spread and spread,” Trzaskos said. “I like to say that miniatures are contagious, and you’d better watch out because you’re going to catch it. And that’s really what happened. And it is unbelievable.”

“It’s almost as if it was an organic, natural process. I have no idea why miniatures spark this thing in us, but they do,” Kahn said.

Just down the block at the Museum of Things Tiny and Found, Doran Hamm thinks he knows why. “It’s something very human in our storytelling and the ability to put something in our pocket and take it with us,” he said.

His hole-in-the-wall spot celebrates the little things in life, and he says he loves how the rest of the town has also embraced the magic of the minuscule. “I was astonished by the level — the commitment was high,” Hamm said.

Organizers say this might be a one-off. They’ll measure whether it’s a success and consider whether to bring it back again. But they hope this festival of all things fun-size will encourage people to come “rediscover” what Brattleboro has to offer.

“We are quirky, creative. We are whimsical. We’re family-friendly. We also have challenges just like every town in Vermont and really across the country really,” Kahn said. “But we’re all of those things, and we can be bigger and better and creative than we’ve ever been.”

Visitors have until the end of the month to see these miniatures in Brattleboro.

On next Wednesday’s installment of “Vermont’s Own,” we’ll visit Craftsbury. If you have an idea for your town, don’t be shy, send us a note about the places, people, and events that embody the place you call home.
