Democratic leaders agree with governor that school consolidation must go forward

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/03/democratic-leaders-agree-with-governor-that-school-consolidation-must-go-forward/

MONTPELIER, Vt. (WCAX) - Another projected double-digit property tax increase is adding urgency to calls for education funding reform, and Republican Gov. Phil Scott and Democratic leaders on Wednesday say they agree about the need for school consolidation to reduce costs.

Another legislative session, and another year of grappling with federal spending drying up, expensive health care, and the path to making education more affordable.

“This session will be more like a horror movie than a Hallmark film,” said Sen. Phil Baruth, D-Chittenden County.

Lawmakers returned to the Statehouse on Wednesday for a one-day briefing. The buzz in the halls and on the House floor was about what to do about spiraling property taxes.

The Legislature convenes on January 6, and local school budgets have to be finalized and warned to voters by the beginning of February. Then, Town Meeting Day comes on March 3, raising the question of what, if anything, state lawmakers can do to bring down school spending before voters head to the polls.

There are few options. Districts could voluntarily revise their budgets downward, or lawmakers could institute penalties for those who spend more than a set amount.

The solution in the past has been for the Legislature to move other tax revenues into the Education Fund to buy down property tax rates. But with other demands on state revenues, both Republican Gov. Phil Scott and Democratic House Speaker Jill Krowinski are wary of doing that again. Instead, they say they remain focused on the larger reform effort started last session .

“It was long past time to fix the broken system. The longer we wait, the harder it gets,” Scott said.

“Our Act 73 created the framework, and we have to talk about consolidation, we have to,” Krowinski said.

Some in the education community contend consolidation won’t save taxpayers money or improve outcomes for kids. That was the conclusion of the School District Redistricting Task Force, which last month refused to draw up new maps to cut the number of districts down to just a handful. Instead, a majority of the group argued that letting districts voluntarily share services would save taxpayers money faster than the projected three-year timeline for implementing redistricting and a new funding formula.

House Speaker Jill Krowinski said she met with over 120 legislators over the summer and fall to make the case for sticking with the consolidation plan agreed to last session. She said she can’t worry about election day and is focused on making forward progress on education reform.

WHY CAN’T LOTTERY REVENUE HELP BUY DOWN PROPERTY TAX?

In the wake of double-digit property tax forecasts announced this week, WCAX viewers are once again asking why the state’s lottery revenues -- which are allocated for education -- aren’t making more of a dent in the state’s Education Fund, reducing the need for property taxes. For the answer to that question , and other answers to all manner of other viewer questions, head to WCAX.com .
