Vermont Fish and Wildlife proposes new fees for recreation on state lands

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/03/vermont-fish-wildlife-proposes-rule-regulate-outdoor-recreation/

MONTPELIER, Vt. (WCAX) - Vermont Fish and Wildlife is considering a new rule to charge a fee for recreation beyond hunting and fishing, for things like birdwatching, kayaking or hiking. Officials say it’s an attempt to monetize from the many people enjoying state lands.

Middlebury resident Lorraine Morse focuses her camera lens on a flock of snow geese at Panton’s Dead Creek Wildlife Management Area.

“I’m kind of a regular,” she said.

Her frequent visits could soon come with a fee. Vermont Fish and Wildlife, which manages the area, is considering charging people to visit.

“I would probably pay it if it seemed reasonable because I do come out here a lot and I do enjoy it,” Morse said.

Under the rule, people would need a license to visit any of Vermont Fish and Wildlife’s 301 wildlife management and access areas. Department Commissioner Jason Batchelder estimates an annual license would cost roughly $20.

“If you bought it today, it would be good till this time next year,” he said.

It comes amid a shift in the state’s recreation landscape. Fish and Wildlife data show more hunters and anglers are choosing one-time fee, lifetime and permanent licenses over annual ones.

Batchelder says the fluctuating income, combined with more people visiting state lands for nonhunting types of recreation, requires greater revenue. He estimates the fees could raise at least $250,000 annually.

“We are always looking for ways to make ourselves more whole financially as a department. And we see this as an opportunity for everyone to share the burden,” Batchelder said.

Morse is willing to share, but has questions about how the department will implement the broad change.

“I don’t really know how they could find everybody and make people pay. It seems kind of unwieldy to implement,” she said.

Department officials hope public outreach and potential new hires would enforce licenses. From there, the department’s Andrea Shortsleeve says they’d trust visitors to do the right thing.

“A warden will be able to stop someone recreating and say, ‘Hey, welcome to whatever WMA. Could I see your conservation license?’ I think that’s the end goal and vision,” she said.

Fish and Wildlife says out-of-staters would have to pay, too. They’re still deciding how much.

They hope to roll out new licenses in January 2027.
