'No credible information' received on where Brown University shooter could be, authorities say

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/no-credible-info-on-brown-university-shooter/69789761

Authorities held a news conference at 5 p.m. Tuesday at the Providence Public Safety Complex to provide an update on the investigation into the shooting on the Brown University campus.

A gunman opened fire Saturday afternoon inside a classroom in the Barus and Holley building, which houses the School of Engineering and physics department.

Two students were killed, and nine others were injured.

The FBI and Providence police released new videos that show the movements of a person of interest in the shooting. The FBI Boston X account posted a timeline video, which can be seen below, but later deleted the post. Providence police, meanwhile, posted a video that shows enhanced views of the person of interest's movements.

See the enhanced video of the person of interest here:

See the FBI's timeline video here:

Authorities said they still do not know the identity of the person of interest in the Brown University shooting.

Police are asking the public to review their cameras, including Ring and Tesla cameras, for additional photos or videos that could assist the investigation.

Officials urged people to focus on the individual's body movements in the released footage to help with identification.

Police said the person of interest was seen in the area as early as 10 a.m. Saturday, several hours before the shooting, which happened shortly after 4 p.m., Providence Police Col. Oscar Perez said investigators believe the individual may have been scouting the area beforehand.

Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Neronha addressed questions about the lack of surveillance footage from inside the building.

Neronha said the shooting occurred in an older, rear section of the building with limited cameras. Students fled into a newer portion of the building with more surveillance. Authorities have released all video they believe most clearly shows the person of interest.

"There is video inside the building, there are cameras inside the building. What we have released to you are videos of this person of interest. I want to be clear because later on, there may be other videos that get released in the course of a prosecution, likely will be at some point, they show things like chaos after the shooting. But they don't show, is the, is this person of interest?" Neronha said.

>> Watch Tuesday’s full news conference <<

Officials also addressed the recent death of an MIT engineering professor, who was shot and killed in his home Tuesday. According to the FBI, they do not believe the incident is directly connected to the Brown University shooting.

Authorities said there is no evidence that Ella Cook, one of the students killed, was specifically targeted.

As the investigation continues, Neronha asked the public for patience while authorities work to bring justice to victims.

Providence Mayor Brett Smiley said officials have not received any credible threats to the campus or city related to the shooting.

Officials did not comment on whether they believe the person of interest is still in the community.

Here is an updated look at the facts of the case and what we're hoping to learn.

A new image of the person of interest was released Tuesday afternoon:

--
