5-year-old kindergarten student struck, killed by school bus in Maine

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-17
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/crash-closes-road-elementary-school-standish-maine/69796556

Pedestrian crash happened less than half a mile from Edna Libby Elementary School

Pedestrian crash happened less than half a mile from Edna Libby Elementary School

Pedestrian crash happened less than half a mile from Edna Libby Elementary School

Maine authorities say a kindergarten student died Tuesday morning after he was struck by a school bus in Standish.

The Cumberland County Sheriff's Office said the pedestrian crash happened shortly before 8 a.m. in the area of 437 Northeast Road, which is part of Route 35.

The crash scene was near the intersection of Route 114 and less than half a mile from Edna Libby Elementary School.

The student, 5-year-old Simon Gonzalez, was pronounced dead at the scene, according to authorities.

Reporter Cate McCusker with our sister station WMTW spoke with Simon's grandfather, Jason Small, who said his family is heartbroken. Small described his grandson as a happy child who was excited to go to school and on adventures with his family.

"Simon loved life. He loved to just be on the go," Small said in a statement. "Our family has been devastated by this loss. ... He was and always will be extremely loved and missed by his whole family and everyone that knew him."

The Sheriff's Office said one other student was on the Bonny Eagle School District bus that was involved in the crash. Sheriff Kevin Joyce said that the student who was on the bus at the time of the crash is the half-brother of the student who was fatally struck.

The cause and circumstances surrounding the crash are being investigated by the Cumberland County Sheriff's Office, Maine State Police Crash Reconstruction Unit and Maine State Police Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Unit.

Superintendent of Schools Clay Gleason said students at Edna Libby Elementary were dismissed at 11:30 a.m. to allow parents and guardians to be with their children and for staff to receive support. The school day went on as scheduled at all other Bonny Eagle schools, but all afterschool activities were canceled.

"In this difficult time please keep those directly impacted in your thoughts — first and foremost the family of the student, as well as the students and staff of Edna Libby. Speculation or blame on social media is not productive or helpful and is disrespectful to the memory of the student and their family," Gleason said in as statement. "The immediate focus is on supporting the family, and students and staff at Edna Libby. We have counselors on site to support students and staff. If you have a specific concern for your child, whether they attend Standish Schools or any other school in the district, please contact your child’s school for support."

A mile-long stretch of Route 35 between Route 114 and Moody Road was closed for about three hours following the crash.

Gleason said more information about any impact on school for later in the week will be made available once the Bonny Eagle administration has had a chance to process and plan.
