Brian Walshe trial: Evidence accumulates as questions about Ana's cause of death loom

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-09
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brian-walshe-murder-trial-live-updates-december-9/69675995

Prosecutors have accumulated evidence, including hand tools and surveillance video, in the ongoing trial of Brian Walshe, the Massachusetts man accused of killing and dismembering his wife. The case is scheduled to resume Tuesday morning with witnesses involved in analyzing the evidence.

The Cohasset man is accused of killing and dismembering Ana Walshe, 39, around New Year's Day in 2023. Prosecutors allege that Brian Walshe disposed of his wife's remains in dumpsters around the area.

Witnesses from several businesses were called to the stand by the prosecution on Monday, and their testimony was used to introduce surveillance videos into evidence. Videos were all from the early days of January, and some clearly showed Walshe's face.

Lowe’s representative, Cade Reed, walked jurors through the Danvers self-checkout video and a receipt that showed items including a hacksaw, hatchet, mop, buckets, cleaner and rags, and a receipt for $463 in cash. Other videos showed purchases made at a CVS and a Walgreens.

Earlier Monday, jurors heard about a $500,000 life insurance policy from Ana Walshe's boss and from two people involved in the analyses that identified blood clots among crime scene evidence.

As jury selection was beginning two weeks ago, Brian Walshe abruptly changed his plea to guilty on charges of misleading police and moving his wife's body.

The change of plea is an admission that Brian Walshe knows his wife is dead, which means that his defense team cannot argue that there is no proof of her death. It also means that prosecutors will need to overcome questions about the cause of her death.

Ana Walshe was last seen alive on New Year's Eve in 2022. What began as a missing person search in Cohasset and Washington, D.C., quickly escalated. Within days, Brian Walshe was arrested and accused of misleading investigators.

Prosecutors said he killed his wife, believing she was having an affair, then dismembered and disposed of her body, which was never found.

In the weeks after Ana Walshe disappeared, investigators searched a trash facility and found a hacksaw and a knife with blood and bone fragments.

Other evidence includes cleaning products Brian Walshe allegedly purchased and internet searches, such as "10 ways to dispose of a dead body if you really need to."
