'He touched so many people': Brown University shooting victim's sister speaks on loss

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brown-university-shooting-victims-sister-speaks/69803898

It has now been five days since the mass shooting at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, on Saturday afternoon that killed two and injured nine others.

A memorial has been set up at the Van Wickle Gates on Brown's campus to honor sophomore Ella Cook and freshman Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokow, the two students who lost their lives in the shooting.

"I would probably say, 80, 90 people reached out, just sending me photos and sending me funny stories about him. And it's just sort of reinforces his character in my head that, you know, like he touched so many people in such a little amount of time," said Samira Umurzokow, Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokow's sister.

Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokow was a neuroscience major studying at the university to become a doctor.

Samira Umurzokow said her brother found his dream job in the doctor who operated on him as a child.

"He said, 'Mr. Mukhammad, what do you want to be when you grow up?' And he said, 'I want to be a neurosurgeon just like you. So I can help kids like me,'" she said.

As the manhunt continues to seek justice for Mukhammad and Cook, questions remain about what investigators are doing to find the person of interest.

On Wednesday, the Providence Police Department announced a new search for someone who was seen near the person of interest.

"I, we truly believe that, based on the video footage that we have been watching for a few days, that may have relevant information to the investigation," said Providence Police Col. Oscar Perez.

The investigation is also expanding to a wider area, with out-of-state police departments now involved.

"It is a scary time here in the city. That's true at Christmas time. That was true when this started on Sunday morning, the first morning after," said Providence Mayor Brett Smiley.

Families of the victims said this is also a time to make sure the lives lost are remembered properly.

"My parents just want people to, you know, hear their son's name, see their son's picture instead of, you know, seeing two dead, nine injured," said Samira Umurzokow.

Anyone with information regarding the person of interest, or the person seen near the person of interest, is asked to contact Providence police at 401-272-3131 or visit FBI.gov/brownuniversityshooting .
