Police looking for individual seen near person of interest in Brown University shooting

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brown-university-shooting-investigation/69799711

Investigators are looking to identify an individual seen "in proximity" to the person of interest as they continue the search for the suspect in the Brown University shooting.

During a finals study hall Saturday afternoon, a gunman opened fire inside a classroom in the Barus and Holley building, which houses the School of Engineering and physics department. Two students were killed, and nine others were injured.

Officials have identified the two victims as sophomore Ella Cook and freshman Mukhammad Aziz Umurzokov.

During a daily news conference Wednesday afternoon, police released surveillance photos of a different person who was seen near the person of interest. Officials said the intent is to speak with that individual.

"We have video footage that determines…that this person was in the vicinity where the subject of interest was," said Providence Police Col. Oscar Perez.

>> Watch Wednesday’s full news conference <<

Police did not say whether the person is suspected of taking part in the shooting or if they are another person of interest. They also could not confirm the person's gender.

See the photos of this new person police would like to speak with:

--

--

Meanwhile, investigators on Tuesday released new video showing the person of interest's movements near the shooting scene before and after the shooting.

See the enhanced video of the person of interest here:

Perez urged caution regarding false images circulating online of the person of interest.

"I want to urge you, the public, not to rely on or circulate AI-generated images that are currently being shared on social media, as they are not verified or credible," he said. "The updates and information that you're getting will be provided exclusively through this department's official channels."

>> Analysis: Former assistant AG describes investigative process amid search for a suspect as Brown shooting investigation continues :

As the investigation continues, Providence Mayor Brett Smiley said that while law enforcement patrols would increase, the city cannot be completely shut down during the search.

"We need to recognize, as a city, that kids need to go to school, people need to go to work, and we appreciate the courage and sometimes the even tentative steps forward as we start to move forward as a community," he said.

Investigators also released a map showing areas where they believe the person might have been before and after the shooting. Police said they are looking for surveillance footage from that area:

Streets marked in green indicate locations where footage confirms the person of interest was present in the hours before the shooting. Streets marked in red indicate locations where footage confirms the person of interest was present immediately after the shooting. The blue zone identifies the area where investigators are seeking property or vehicle camera footage from any time on the day of the shooting.

Several out-of-state police departments confirmed on social media that they would assist by interviewing individuals in their jurisdictions related to the investigation, including the North Attleboro and Plainville, Massachusetts, police departments.

Providence Police could not confirm which other law enforcement agencies they are collaborating with. Officials also did not confirm whether the person of interest has left Rhode Island.

A new image of the person of interest was released Tuesday afternoon:

--
