Suspect in Brown University, MIT professor shootings found dead at storage facility in Salem, NH

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brown-university-shooting-mit-shooting-salem-1218/69813011

The suspect in the mass shooting at Brown University and the killing of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor has been found dead, authorities said.

At a news conference Thursday night, authorities confirmed the suspect was found dead at a storage facility in Salem, New Hampshire, from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. It remains unclear how long the suspect was in the storage facility.

Officials said the suspect was identified as 48-year-old Claudio Neves Valente with a last known address in Miami, Florida. Authorities said the suspect had been moving around New England since October.

>>> Watch the full Providence Police Department news conference :

Police said Neves Valente was previously a Brown University student and is a Portuguese national.

According to Brown University President Christina Paxson, he was enrolled at Brown from the fall of 2000 through the spring of 2001. Paxson said Neves Valente was enrolled in a doctoral program, but he later withdrew. He was said to be enrolled only in physics classes at the university.

On Wednesday, investigators released new surveillance footage in hopes of identifying an individual seen "in proximity" to the suspect. Investigators said that within an hour after releasing the footage, the person came forward and was able to help investigators identify the suspect.

According to an affidavit, the person told investigators he encountered the suspect inside a bathroom on the ground floor of the Barus and Holley building. He said he made eye contact with him multiple times before the suspect exited the building into the parking lot. The person followed the suspect when he saw him go up Manning Street.

>>> Read the full Providence Police Department affidavit <<<

Police said the person gave investigators information regarding the suspect's appearance and the car he was seen driving: a gray sedan with a Florida license plate.

Officials said they received another report from a different person Wednesday, also regarding a gray sedan with a Florida license plate described to be moving "unusually slow."

After reviewing street cameras, authorities concluded the vehicle, a Nissan Sentra, was rented from Alamo Rent A Car in downtown Boston by Neves Valente.

Surveillance video from Alamo Rent A Car showed Neves Valente wearing the same clothes seen in the photos police released of the person of interest.

Authorities said they did not release the suspect's name in hopes of catching him if he tried to return the car. The suspect was said to have changed the license plate on the rental car, making it more difficult to track down. That car was eventually found in New Hampshire.
