Annual Hanukkah event in Keene celebrates latkes and light

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/annual-hanukkah-event-in-keene-celebrates-latkes-and-light/article_85a06c18-c68c-4b1a-8fbf-176655ab2d14.html

Silan Marks, 10, lights her family’s menorah during the last night of Hanukkah on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. The family had gathered to celebrate the end of Hanukkah and partake in the congregation's annual Latke Blowout.

People filled the pews at Congregation Ahavas Achim on Sunday for the Keene synagogue’s annual Latke Blowout to celebrate the last night of Hanukkah. Congregants lit candles in personal menorahs they brought with them to the event and sang and danced the evening away. As the singing wound down, Rabbi Daniel Aronson even read a children's book by Lemony Snicket called “The Latke Who Couldn't Stop Screaming: A Christmas Story.” Finally, to round out the night, everyone made their way downstairs to enjoy a latke dinner cooked by synagogue members.

An eight-night celebration also known as the Festival of Lights, Hanukkah commemorates the Maccabean Revolt (from 167 to 160 BCE) in which Jewish rebels fought Greek oppressors to reclaim the second temple in Jerusalem. The rebels had only enough oil to light the menorah at the temple for one night, but that oil miraculously burned for eight days. Latkes and other fried foods such as jelly donuts are typically eaten during Hanukkah to symbolize the miracle of the oil.

A menorah coated in melted wax on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. There were about 15 menorahs spread out throughout the worship space.

Congregation Ahavas Achim Rabbi Daniel Aronson speaks with guests at the synagogue’s annual end of Hanukkah Latke Blowout on Sunday in Keene. “It’s rare we can actually have this celebration on the actual last day of Hanukkah," Aronson said. Sunday was the eighth and final night of the holiday.

The sequined jacket of Congregation Ahavas Achim's Rabbi Daniel Aronson on Sunday in Keene.

The Lat-Keys play music during the last night of Hanukkah and ahead of the annual Latke Blowout on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene.

Wax drips down the side of the menorah’s shamash candle at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. The shamash is the “helper” candle, which is used to light the others.

Congregants gather for the last night of Hanukkah and the annual Latke Blowout on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene.

A child spins a dreidel on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. “Underage gambling!” a few of the children said, laughing.

People dance and celebrate the last night of Hanukkah on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. A band played music while people sang and danced throughout the evening.

People hold hands as they dance on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene.

Ailey Lemon, 11, and mom Alice Lemon dance during a last night of Hanukkah celebration ahead of the annual Latke Blowout on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene.

Congregation Ahavas Achim Rabbi Daniel Aronson reads "The Latke Who Couldn’t Stop Screaming" by Lemony Snicket on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene.

Guests grab latkes during the annual Latke Blowout on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. This was the first time the congregation was able to use its kitchen and dining space since May, when the area flooded.

Guests grab latkes during the annual Latke Blowout on Sunday at Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene. “The great Latke Blowout doesn’t happen on its own,” Rabbi Daniel Aronson said. “It happens because of the leadership of Malcolm [Katz] and Jerry [Kaufman.]”
