Keene man's collection brightens kids' holidays

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/keene-nh-resident-donates-hundreds-of-beanie-babies-to-keene-housing-kids-collaborative-2025-holiday-bazaar/article_8f7e55f9-3bcf-4bf0-8f2d-147b0839b63f.html

To make a little kid smile.

That was Richie Hoffman’s goal when he decided to donate his collection of somewhere between 250 and 300 unopened, pristine Beanie Babies to the Keene Housing Kids Collaborative’s annual holiday bazaar.

“[I hoped the kids would get the] enjoyment of a little animal, a favorite animal that they could pick,” the 71-year-old Keene resident said.

It was in the ‘90s, when Ty Inc. debuted the stuffed toys, that Hoffman fell in love with the iconic plush animals.

“I didn’t have any real goals,” Hoffman said of why he started the collection. “They were just nice looking and, you know, I wanted to get them and display them.”

Glow the Lightning Bug, Patti the Platypus, Gracie the Swan, Swampy the Alligator — Hoffman had them all. His favorite? The 1997 Princess Diana Bear, which was released two months after her death.

“It was quite a journey to collect them,” he said, smiling at the memory. “Fighting at the store when they would come out and going and getting them, it was like a mad rush ... but I really enjoyed chasing around to get them.”

Beanie Babies started popping up on shelves in different stores around America in 1993. Through strategic scarcity and the introduction of “retiring” the plushies in 1995, Beanie Babies quickly emerged as hot collectibles. People purchased the animals and flipped them on eBay or kept them in hopes that as the years went by they would increase in value. At the turn of the century, the “Beanie Baby bubble” burst.

Hoffman was on Facebook one day last month when he saw a post from the kids collaborative asking for community donations to the nonprofit’s holiday bazaar.

The Keene Housing Kids Collaborative provides local children of families involved with Keene Housing, Southwestern Community Services or with a Housing Choice Voucher free access to educational opportunities outside of school and during the summer.

“We want them to have the same access and same opportunities as all the other kids do in the community,” Keene Housing Kids Collaborative Executive Director Sally Malay said.

The Dec. 13 event at the collaborative’s building on Harmony Lane had a “shop” for children to visit. Everything in the bazaar is donated, and kids typically find holiday gifts for their siblings, guardians, parents and other relatives.

“We’re giving the gift of giving to the children,” Malay said. “They’re learning about having that really warm feeling of being able to select something they think their family member would enjoy, and then having that gift to take home to give to them.”

Hoffman had never thought about selling the toys before. But, after seeing the post calling for donations, he decided to gather up his hundreds of boxes of Beanie Babies and pass them on to new families through the holiday bazaar.

“I just thought it would be a nice gesture,” he said. “Maybe it can make some little person smile at Christmas.”

Hoffman took the large cartons that stored his collection in his finished basement and loaded them into his car to take to the collaborative’s building. When seeing the extent of Hoffman’s collection, Malay and the rest of the organization decided to put together a display of the plushies to thank him.

“I hadn’t taken them out of their boxes so to see them on the shelves was amazing,” Hoffman said. “To see them so nice and clean and cheery looking was wonderful.”

“It was emotional,” he said. “I kinda miss them.”

This year, 132 kids participated in the holiday bazaar, getting 565 wrapped presents for their family members, according to Malay. All of the gifts, from Hoffman’s collection to soaps and coffee mugs, were donated by local businesses, community groups and individuals.

“It was a really wonderful experience for everybody,” Malay said. “I had one little kiddo who was 4 that said, ‘I’m really excited to go in and shop for my mom and he was chatting to me before he went in’ ... and then afterwards he came running back out to me and grabbed my legs and gave me a big hug and he said, ‘I just want to thank you because I had a great day shopping for my mom.’

“... And I just thought that was just a reflection of the experience we wanted our kids to have, that they feel so good about being able to choose something for their loved one.”

As for Hoffman’s Beanie Babies, Malay said they were a popular item with the children.

And through his generosity, Hoffman’s own Christmas wish of bringing joy came true.
