Santa visits NewBrook Fire House

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/santa-visits-newbrook-fire-house/article_da3a9bf1-b526-4276-be99-b9a24edecd55.html

Caleb's Cherubs Educational Fund held its fourth annual Santa event at the NewBrook Fire House in Newfane on Saturday, Dec. 6, 2025.

NEWFANE — Children rushed to Santa Claus as he stepped off the NewBrook Fire Department’s truck during the fourth annual Visit with Santa, hosted by Caleb's Cherubs Educational Fund in West Townshend.

Children filled the fire house an hour before his arrival and were greeted with a stuffed animal and free food. Families participated in different crafts and games while others wrote letters to Santa.

“We give clothing, we give arts and crafts, coloring books, reading books, stuffies, and of course, Santa and filled stockings. And we do this all for the community every year,” said Linda Hoag, director and founder of Caleb's Cherubs Educational Fund.

She added that right now the organization funds most of the event with some community donations, but is looking to partner with other organzations in the community to help grow the event. When it first started they had just over 30 children, and this year's event on Dec. 6 saw about 70.

Caleb's Cherubs Educational Fund held its fourth annual Santa event at the NewBrook Fire House in Newfane on Saturday, Dec. 6, 2025.

“This is our largest, and has been growing every year, so we're already thinking next year, where are we going to have it that we can hold like a bazillion kids?” Hoag said with a laugh.

She noted that Caleb’s Cherubs Educational Fund is a nonprofit that is all about empowering children to succeed.

“We support a STEM and STEAM curriculum in the schools for children. Not everybody is comfortable in a sit-still classroom situation, so we allow the opportunity, if classrooms would like to put in extra areas for kids to play, to work with Legos or work with puzzles or something, to ease their tensions and stress,” said Hoag. “We also put snacks in some of the classrooms, to help a child to pay attention. If their tummies are hungry, they're not going to pay attention.”

For more information visit www.ccefvt.org
