Granite Staters buying supplies ahead of snowstorm

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/new-hampshire-supplies-snowstorm-120125/69595611

With the season's first statewide snowfall in the forecast, many in New Hampshire were grabbing last-minute supplies Monday.

Heavy snow is expected to fall across the state Tuesday, with up to 10 inches possible in some areas.

Ace Hardware in Concord was busy Monday evening as people stopped in to pick up shovels, ice melt and snowblowers.

"Excitement a little bit. Dread a little bit," said Warren Heart, assistance manager at Concord Ace Hardware. "The new married couples with the new homes are excited to do the snow for the first time, and the kids playing out the snow. Old people like me are like, 'Uh not again.'"

While many shoppers were buying new snowblowers, the crew at Mowers and Blowers was helping keep older ones running.

"We've had a lot of people coming in, and we've been helping them get through some last minute things like, when they don't start, we help them clean out the carburetors and things like that," an employee said.

At Harbor Freight in Manchester, Danielle Wilson and Colin Frain weren't just getting their home ready, but also their landscaping business.

>> Updates: Interactive Radar | Hour-by-hour timeline

They said their trucks are ready to plow some snow, and their priority was stocking up on the one thing that always seems to run low.

"Stock up on salt. That's always the biggest problem every year," Frain said. "Nobody has enough, and it's gone before we know it."

The Department of Transportation said the storm is expected to be the first true plowable storm statewide this season. Workers checked the trucks and plow blades to make sure everything is ready for Tuesday.

The evening commute is expected to be particularly slow and slippery. Depending on conditions, roads in some parts of the state might be pretreated ahead of the storm.

DOT crews will be plowing, salting and sanding throughout the duration of the storm, and drivers are being asked to take their time getting to their destinations.

"It's really just focusing on that evening commute and really making sure that you're taking the time to get to where you need to go and slow down and drive to the weather conditions," said DOT spokesperson Jennifer Lane.

To prepare for a snowstorm, the American Red Cross recommends making sure you heat your house safely, having plenty of food and water and avoiding travel if you can.

If you do have to hit the roads, the National Weather Service recommends having spare coats, hats and gloves, a first aid kit, and a phone charger.

Officials are also reminding drivers to clean off their cars before heading out. Those who don't could face fines.
