Image of missing backpack released in push for tips in 2001 killing of hiker in White Mountains

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/new-hampshire-louise-chaput-backpack/69607722

The attorney general and the New Hampshire Cold Case Unit are renewing an appeal for public assistance in the unsolved homicide of Louise Chaput . The renewal coincided with the 24th anniversary of her death.

Chaput, a psychologist from Quebec, set out to go on a short hike after driving from Canada to the White Mountains. She was found stabbed to death days later.

She was last seen alive on Nov. 15, 2001, and was reported missing on Nov. 20. She was later found dead on Nov. 22, 2001. She was 52.

>> WATCH: 'White Mountains Mystery: The Killing of Louise Chaput'

She had reserved a room at the Joe Dodge Lodge at the Appalachian Mountain Club visitor center for a long weekend in the mountains. With daylight fading when she arrived at 3 p.m., Chaput asked an AMC worker at the Pinkham Notch Visitor Center for directions to a short hike that would get her back before dusk. The clerk suggested a short walk around Lost Pond Trail, which began just across the street from the lodge.

When she failed to return home the following Monday, friends and family called police to report her missing. She was then found two days later with multiple stab wounds on Thanksgiving Day. She was found a short distance off the Glen Boulder Trail in Jackson, New Hampshire.

During the investigation, authorities found Chaput’s car, a silver Ford Focus, but the keys and several personal belongings, including a blue backpack with a Canadian insignia, were never found. On Monday night, investigators released an image showing what the backpack would have looked like.

In a press release from the attorney general and the New Hampshire Cold Case Unit, Chaput’s daughter, Constance, expressed that the family continues to hope for answers to Louise Chaput's death.

“We still don’t know who committed this irreparable act. If anyone remembers anything—no matter how small—please come forward. It could finally help bring us the truth,” she said.

Since her body was found, the investigation has puzzled authorities. Police told WMUR in 2004 that Chaput was hiking on the Glen Boulder Trail, but that whoever killed her forced her off that trail and brought her down into a clearing about 100 yards away. Despite this information, they were unable to determine a suspect.

Her death was ruled a homicide, and investigators believe the attack was random. While investigators said 10 years after Chaput's death that the case had direction, they have never been able to identify her killer.

No suspects have been named in the case to this day.

The state's Cold Case Unit is hoping to find any information that could better pinpoint Chaput’s movements that day, which could help in finding those responsible for her death.

In the statement, officials are looking to hear from people who hiked in the Pinkham Notch region on Nov. 15, 2001. They are also looking for anyone who was part of organized hiking groups, clubs or informal hiking meetups that were active during the time of Chaput’s death.

Investigators are also looking to hear from people who may have participated in online hiking forums or LISTSERVs discussing conditions in the White Mountains in late 2001. Investigators are encouraging that even the smallest recollection could help clarify Chaput’s movements and interactions the day she went missing.

The Cold Case Unit urged anyone with information to contact it at 603-271-2663.
