LIVE: Testimony resumes on Day 2 of Brian Walshe murder trial

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-02
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brian-walshe-murder-trial-live-updates-december-2/69605886

Testimony resumes Tuesday in the murder trial of Brian Walshe, the Massachusetts father accused of killing and dismembering his wife.

The Cohasset man is accused of killing and dismembering Ana Walshe, 39, around New Year's Day in 2023. Prosecutors allege that Brian Walshe disposed of his wife's remains in dumpsters around the area.

The jury of nine women and seven men will hear two very different theories about what happened to Ana Walshe.

Assistant District Attorney Gregory P. Connor said in his opening statement that Brian Walshe is responsible for the grisly murder and laid out the circumstantial evidence compiled in this case, which includes bleach, hydrogen peroxide, a hatchet and a hacksaw that Brian Walshe allegedly purchased after Jan. 1, 2023 — the last time Ana was seen alive.

"At 10:28 a.m., the MacBook researched 'I'm the user of my wife's credit card, she is missing' and again on Jan. 1 at 11:28 a.m. it searched 'best way to dispose of body parts after a murder,'" Connor said.

Defense attorney Larry Tipton said Brian Walshe discovered his wife was dead when he climbed into bed with her after celebrating on New Year's Eve.

"It didn't make sense that somebody that he had just been with and enjoyed New Year's Eve into New Year's Day would suddenly be dead," Tipton said. "You will hear evidence in this case of sudden unexplained death. You will hear evidence that it is real. You will hear evidence that it happens in young people and old people."

"We finally saw the pivot that many of us had anticipated. I'm not sure we anticipated this exact pivot and unexplained sudden death, but they conceded the death. So some of us were wondering about that. That was conceded at the outset. They talked about the fact that he went down in the kitchen, came back up, and she just died," said legal analyst and retired judge Jim Barretto.

The first testimony in the trial came from Sgt. Harrison Schmidt, of the Cohasset Police Department. He answered questions about a series of interviews and conversations with Walshe, and jurors heard audio recordings from three of those encounters.

During the second day of testimony, jurors are expected to hear more from Schmidt and then testimony from a state trooper who will testify about evidence recovered from digital devices.

As jury selection was beginning two weeks ago, Brian Walshe abruptly changed his plea to guilty on charges of misleading police and moving his wife's body.

The change of plea is also an admission that Brian Walshe knows his wife is dead, which means that his defense team cannot argue there is no proof of her death.

ABC’s "Nightline" spoke to Ana Walshe’s friend who called the allegations against Brian Walshe "evil."

"What kind of man would kill his own wife who gave him three beautiful boys? I mean there are no words. It's simply …  it's evil what Brian did. There is no ... there's no words," said Natasha Sky Babushkina.

She wants justice for her friend and her children.

"Justice would be to make sure that Brian is found guilty, No. 1," she said. "No. 2, that Anna's children would be given back to her family, to her sister, and that they would be kept together."

Ana Walshe was last seen alive on New Year's Eve in 2022. What began as a missing person search in Cohasset and Washington, D.C., quickly escalated. Within days, Brian Walshe was arrested and accused of misleading investigators.

Prosecutors said he killed his wife, believing she was having an affair, then dismembered and disposed of her body, which was never found.

In the weeks after Ana Walshe disappeared, investigators searched a trash facility and found a hacksaw and a knife with blood and bone fragments.

Other evidence includes cleaning products Brian Walshe allegedly purchased and internet searches, such as "10 ways to dispose of a dead body if you really need to."
