Loved ones of man killed by Manchester police continue to call for answers

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-21
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/loved-ones-of-victim-killed-by-manchester-police-continue-to-call-for-answers/69828647

Friends and family of the man shot by Manchester police earlier this month continue to call for transparency in the investigation into his death.

The Attorney General's office says around 4:45 a.m. Dec. 6, Manchester police officers responded to a report of a suspicious vehicle near Green Acres Elementary School on South Mammoth Road.

They found Nickenley Turenne, 24, of Manchester, asleep in the driver’s seat of a car, and a female occupant asleep in the passenger seat. When Turenne woke up, investigators say he drove away quickly and crashed into a nearby fence.

Investigators said that Turenne then tried to run away before three Manchester police officers shot and killed him.

Police have not said specifically what led to the shooting, and the Attorney General's Office has not said whether he was armed.

Saturday morning, friends, family, and civil rights advocates gathered for a candlelight vigil near Green Acres Elementary at the site of the shooting, the second in two weeks . Over the course of several hours, attendees held prayers and spoke about their memories of Turenne, and highlighted the claims that he posed no threat to police during the encounter.

Enick Turenne, Nickenley's father, expressed frustration with the lack of information released, questioning who could be the next victim of targeted law enforcement violence.

"14 days after my son was killed, I just found some bullet casings," he said, holding up a plastic bag of metal objects. "That's been the investigation going on. It's a careless investigation."

Arnold Mikolo of the Greater Manchester NAACP said the way Turenne's life ended has left community members searching for the same answers his father has. His memory is honored, he said, by demanding transparency as the encounter has garnered national attention.

"Many of us, especially members of the black community, are left with questions, pain, and concern over how and why this encounter escalated the way it did," he said.

Members of Black Lives Matter New Hampshire were in attendance at the vigil, joining in the calls for more evidence into what happened.

"Although New Hampshire may have a lower rate of police shootings," said Tanisha Johnson with BLM New Hampshire, "it is still a huge disparity for black lives. It does not mean that (police) have the ability to be judge, jury and executioner for people."

In a statement, the Attorney General's Office said they expect the last interviews related to the investigation to finish in the coming weeks.

The Manchester Police Department said it will provide updates as they become available.
