New craft brewery prepares to open in Bellows Falls

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/12/new-craft-brewery-prepares-open-bellows-falls/

BELLOWS FALLS, Vt. (WCAX) - A new craft brewery is preparing to open its doors in Bellows Falls, bringing the first brew pub to the community.

New England IPA, Lager, and Kilt Lifter will be just a few of the beers on tap at the 7 Balls Brewery in Bellows Falls. But just as important are the ties to its hometown.

“These are my oldest friends, and we are doing something together that we love to do,” said the brewery’s Chris Sherwin.

The business is the brainchild of four friends who grew up in the community. One has since moved out of town, but three remained to bring the dream to life.

“We don’t have plans to be huge. We just want to be small. We want to be here. We want to be our community brewery,” said co-owner Paul Lawrence.

They first started home-brewing together several years back. Now, an old gas station-turned ice cream shop that has sat empty for years will be their new home.

“It’s funny, we’ve got some of the more locals here saying, ‘Yeah, it is kind of neat to see everything move up the street,’” said Steve Adams of Bellows Falls.

The brewery is located just a stone’s throw from the heart of downtown, a bustling Main Street with plenty of “open” flags. But this will be the only brewery in town.

“They are following their own dreams and doing their own thing that they want to do in this community where other people are doing the same thing,” said Casey Griffin with the Bellows Falls Downtown Development Alliance.

The name “7 Balls” is simply a condensed mashup of the brewers’ names. The passion project is in addition to their day jobs, inspired by the love of a good beer and the people who will be enjoying it.

“It is a lot of weight to add, but it just feels like the right thing to do for the community. We believe in the community,” Sherwin said.

A soft opening will take place this weekend, coinciding with a village-wide celebration. The grand opening is being planned for late January.
