Thousands of Vermonters face skyrocketing premiums as Senate rejects health care subsidy extensions

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-12
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/12/thousands-vermonters-face-skyrocketing-premiums-senate-rejects-health-care-subsidy-extensions/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Lawmakers in Washington, D.C. failed to find a way forward on Thursday that would make health insurance more affordable for people who buy individual plans through the Affordable Care Act.

As Republicans and Democrats have failed to find compromise, senators voted on two partisan bills instead that they knew would fail — the Democratic bill to extend the subsidies, and a Republican alternative that would have created new health savings accounts.

Nearly 30,000 Vermonters who buy insurance through Vermont Health Connect , the open marketplace benefit from federal subsidies. Without an extension, costs could double or even triple for some families.

“This will be a failure of Congress because the people hurt are going to be Americans who depend on this,” said Senator Peter Welch.

Republicans felt differently. Paul Dame, the chair of Vermont’s GOP, thinks that federal subsidies have only encouraged care providers and insurance companies to raise their costs. Dame also believes the Republican proposal to create individual health savings accounts, works better.

“This process hasn’t been working. Instead of giving that money to insurance companies, let’s give it to Vermonters, let’s give it to Americans to put into a health savings account and allow those Vermonters, those Americans to use that money in the HSA to do things like buy premiums if they want to pay down their premium or to pay for things that maybe their insurance doesn’t cover,” Dame said.

With no plan approved federally, state lawmakers may choose to take on the financial burden through Vermont’s premium assistance program.

“It is a resource that we do have available. That resource is, like everything else in state government, finite and limited by the resources that are given to us by the administration and by the legislature,” said Alex McCracken from the Department of Vermont Health Access.

She says right now, the program is only for Vermonters below 300% of the federal poverty level, and it only lowers monthly premiums by 1.5% of your household income. “This is going to be a really challenging plan year for a lot of Vermonters,” said McCracken.

Despite the cost and the uncertainty, McCracken says there has been a lot of shopping for insurance through the state this year. Nationally, the Associated Press reports more people than ever are buying insurance on the marketplace. Vermont sold a record number of plans in 2025 and may beat that record again.

The deadline to get coverage starting January 1st through open enrollment is December 15th. The deadline to get coverage at all next year is January 15th.
