Hanukkah ceremony lights up Central Square

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/hanukkah-ceremony-lights-up-central-square/article_a1e4eb77-a5dd-4b16-8537-968cc7acd293.html

The Central Square bandstand was aglow Wednesday night with lights from the community menorah, as part of Keene's annual Hanukkah celebration.

The eight-night celebration, also known as the Festival of Lights, commemorates the Maccabean Revolt (from 167 to 160 BCE) in which Jewish rebels fought Greek oppressors to reclaim the second temple in Jerusalem. The rebels had only enough olive oil to light the menorah at the temple for one night, but that oil miraculously burned for eight days.

The Jewish holiday began Sunday night, and on Wednesday night, the crowd in Central Square celebrated the fourth night of Hanukkah with an electric menorah lighting and songs. Rabbi Daniel Aronson of Congregation Ahavas Achim welcomed people at the event, which also featured Keene Mayor Jay Kahn and several other speakers.

The annual celebration is hosted by Congregation Ahavas Achim in Keene, which also plans to hold a "latke blowout" event this Sunday at the synagogue at 84 Hastings Ave. at 5 p.m. Latkes and other fried foods such as jelly donuts are typically eaten during Hanukkah to symbolize the miracle of the oil.

Rabbi Daniel Aronson of Congregation Ahavas Achim welcomes guests to the annual menorah lighting in Keene's Central Square on Wednesday evening. Aronson has been the rabbi at the synagogue since 2020.

The community menorah ahead of the annual menorah-lighting on Wednesday evening in Keene's Central Square. Now in its fourth year, the Hanukkah event has been at the Keene Family YMCA for the past two years.

Keene Mayor Jay Kahn speaks during the annual menorah-lighting celebration on Wednesday evening in Keene's Central Square. Sunday was the first night of Hanukkah, an eight-night celebration also known as the Festival of Lights.

Congregation Ahavas Achim hosted the annual HanukKah menorah lighting in Keene on Wednesday, Dec. 17, 2025.

Rabbi Daniel Aronson’s Hanukkah-themed holiday hat on Wednesday in Keene's Central Square. Aronson, of Congregation Ahavas Achim, got the blue and white hat off Etsy.

People gather in Keene’s Central Square for the community menorah-lighting celebration on Wednesday evening. Wednesday was the fourth night of Hanukkah.

Congregation Ahavas Achim hosted a menorah lighting in Keene's Central Square on Wednesday Dec. 18, 2025.

Keene Mayor Jay Kahn lights one of the bulbs of the electric menorah at the community menorah-lighting on Wednesday night in Keene's Central Square.
