First Alert: Snow squalls and plummeting temperatures may impact Thursday commutes

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/03/first-alert-snow-squalls-plummeting-temperatures-may-impact-thursday-commutes/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Snow squalls may impact the Thursday morning commute. Due to the risk of heavy bursts of snow, which could cause localized slick travel and whiteout conditions, Thursday is a First Alert Weather Day.

Snow squalls will begin to develop in Northern New York in the predawn hours and gradually move south and east, arriving in the Champlain Valley between 6:00 and 7:00 AM. They will arrive in southern and eastern Vermont between 9:00 and 10:00 AM. Anywhere that sees a snow squall could receive a rapid coating to 2″ of snow that could coat roads. There may be brief periods of reduced visibility of a quarter mile or less and even whiteout conditions at times.

The snow showers and possible squalls are part of a cold front that will usher in a brief blast of Arctic air. Temperatures will drop rapidly through the day Thursday as cold air moves in. We’ll start the day in the upper 20s and low 30s in the morning, falling into the teens and low 20s by late afternoon. It’s also going to be breezy with northwesterly wind gusts up to 35 mph at times. This is going to make it feel much colder.

Wind chill values tomorrow afternoon and evening could be as low as 15 to 20 degrees below zero! If you’ll be spending any time outdoors tomorrow, you’ll need to bundle up.

As the cold air moves in, it could lead to a flash freeze situation where any wet or slushy areas freeze, causing black ice and potentially slick roads into Thursday afternoon and evening.

For all the latest updates, download the First Alert Weather App here . Staying in the know is just one way you can stay safe this winter. You can get any snow squall alerts for your area sent directly to your phone ahead of them. We’ll also have updates on the conditions as the snow moves through all day long on WCAX.
