Rutland Regional pediatric unit closure faces regulatory review

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-03
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/03/rutland-regional-pediatric-unit-closure-faces-regulatory-review/

RUTLAND, Vt. (WCAX) - A planned closure of the inpatient pediatric unit at Rutland Regional Medical Center is causing concerns for some families in the Rutland area, as well as attention from state health care regulators.

Rutland Regional Medical Center announced in October that it would be closing its five inpatient pediatric beds in its women’s and children’s unit.

As of now, the beds are planned to close by December 21, but even a delay to that would mean the world to Cayleen Chapin. “My child has literally spent 85% of his first year and a half of life in the women’s and children’s unit,” she said.

The Pittsford mother’s youngest son, Easton, has a rare breathing disorder and has been treated already three times this winter. Other times, his case is so severe that he needs attention at the UVM Medical Center. She said she was shocked to hear RRMC’s plans

“Unfortunately, that’s an hour and 45 minutes from here. My husband... I’m at home with my ill son, so my husband works all week. I’ve got two other children, and that’s a nightmare. How am I supposed to be in two places at once?” Chapin said.

RRMC officials say the unit’s beds are often unoccupied and they can’t afford to maintain it. The plan is to shift care to the hospital’s emergency department, where most young patients are already seen.

“We see 4,000 pediatric patients every year. We care for the sickest of those children in our ED,” said the hospital’s Alison Davis. “We’re listening very carefully to our pediatric partners on how we can do that in the best way possible.”

The closure still needs to be approved by the Green Mountain Care Board, which will hold a virtual meeting on Friday at 1 p.m. to hear concerns.

“If they take Rutland pediatrics away, there’s nobody else south of UVM. That’s a huge deal,” Chapin said. “A lot of us community members are going to lose the trust in the hospital and their ability to take care of the most vulnerable community members.”

Chapin says she also doesn’t want to see the extra strain that will be placed on the hospital’s emergency department.
