Local conservation and preservation projects get funding boost

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/2025-lchip-grants-to-benefit-winchester-nh-nelson-nh-projects/article_434691f7-1d90-42f1-89c8-885223533002.html

About $224,000 is coming to the Monadnock Region from the 2025 LCHIP awards, announced recently in Concord. The matching grants will support a conservation project in Nelson and a plan to repair and renovate a historic building in Winchester.

The N.H. Land and Community Heritage Investment Program, an independent state authority known as LCHIP, supports conservation and historic preservation projects with annual grantmaking with state funds.

The majority of the LCHIP money heading this way — $200,000 — will go to the Nelson Highlands Forest, a project of the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests. The society plans to protect 655 acres of spruce forest for habitat and recreation. The new conservation would link 5,800 acres of existing conserved land in the region.

The forest is located within the Harris Center SuperSanctuary and the Quabbin-to-Cardigan corridor.

“This investment safeguards biodiversity, strengthens resilient forest systems, and protects an invaluable landscape for future generations,” an LCHIP statement on the awards said of the project.

The town of Winchester is set to receive about $24,000 to help rehabilitate the Winchester National Bank, a historic institution on the town green that Winchester plans to convert into a community center and multipurpose building for programs and events.

The bank closed in 1997, and a donor bought it for the town in 2024.

The National Bank Common Committee raised matching funds to qualify for the grant, according to LCHIP.

In August, the bank building was added to the N.H. State Register of Historic Places.

Work on the bank, which was Winchester’s primary financial institution for 150 years, is expected to begin next year.

“Once complete, the project will protect the building from further deterioration, safeguard its historic integrity, and create a lasting space for educational programs, community events, and heritage tourism,” the LCHIP statement said. “The restored landmark will also contribute to economic growth by attracting visitors and supporting nearby businesses.”

In total, LCHIP awarded $3.5 million to more than 30 projects throughout the state, including work on greenways and forests and a historic school, libraries and homes.
