Burlington City Council talks budget shortfalls, Memorial Auditorium and homeless shelter funding

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/burlington-city-council-talks-budget-shortfalls-memorial-auditorium-plans-homeless-shelter-funding/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - A plan for Burlington’s Memorial Auditorium has been years in the making. After several meetings with public input, the city has put forth a blueprint, but it’s unlikely the plan will ever be realized.

“We have identified a nearly $33 million gap in the budget, which is what we would say the project is not currently financially feasible,” said developer Samantha Dunn during Monday’s City Council meeting.

The city closed Memorial Auditorium to the public in 2016. Almost 10 years later, a new design is before the council. The schematic includes a hotel and residential housing. The high-rise is complete with a rooftop garden. The parking lot next to the library may be converted into a park and playground. The facade and veterans’ memorial will be preserved. The fire station may be rehabilitated, and more parking is planned. There’s a $33 million shortfall that developers hope to resolve by spring.

“We as a developer team are really excited about this vision and are excited to work with the city to evolve this project so that it is financially viable,” said Dunn.

Most councilors were elated with the proposal. A few at the public forum were not.

“There should be more choices,” said Charlie Messing of Burlington.

In other business on Monday, the council authorized the mayor to grant the Champlain Office of Economic Opportunity $104,000 out of the city’s opioid settlement fund to help operate a 12-bed shelter for homeless people trying to get sober.

The mayor’s plan to close a $10 million-12 million shortfall in the city’s budget hangs in the balance. A 5-cent increase to the police and fire tax could go to voters on Town Meeting Day. This would give the city $3 million more to help close the gap, but could raise property taxes for some by hundreds of dollars.

The proposal was referred back to the Board of Finance and will be reviewed then, and most likely again at the City Council meeting on Jan. 12.
