Clinton County opens first warming shelter

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/clinton-county-opens-first-warming-shelter/

PLATTSBURGH, N.Y. (WCAX) - Clinton County residents have a new place to stay warm with the opening of a warming center in Plattsburgh. It comes as the number of people in need of housing assistance has increased.

The warming center is in the same building as the Crisis Stabilization Center on 14 Dormitory Drive in Plattsburgh. It’s staffed by the National Alliance on Mental Illness Champlain Valley, or NAMI.

It’s for anyone who needs a warm bed during “Code Blue” conditions -- when the real feel temperature is below 32 degrees. Eventually, there will be a maximum of 24 beds. But only 12 are available right now.

“Years overdue,” said Clinton County Social Service Commissioner Gretchen Crowningshield. “I’ve been working at the department for over 23 years, and I have seen this need for at least the last ten years, and I think it’s a great service we can provide.”

Crowningshield hopes it will alleviate demand at motels used for housing during the winter. As of December, she says they’ve run out of space. More than 300 people needed temporary housing this fall, a seven-year record high.

“Provides an opportunity for them to be connected to services, whether mental health or drug or addiction services, that if they went to a motel, they wouldn’t necessarily be connected to the right individuals to get them access to those programs,” Crowningshield said.

Clinton County Sheriff Major Nicholas Leon says the warming center builds upon law enforcement’s efforts to connect people to local resources. “This is just another step, another opportunity to help people that might be in need but don’t want to accept all of those other services. It’s a bit of a respite from the cold, and it’s good for law enforcement,” he said.

The program is funded through the state Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance and costs about $310,000 to run.

The warming center will open every night from 6 p.m. to 9 a.m. on a first-come, first-served basis. People can arrange access by calling 518-420-8864 after 4:30 p.m.
