Embattled Addison County prosecutor pleads no contest to DUI

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/embattled-addison-county-prosecutor-pleads-no-contest-dui/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - A Vermont judge on Tuesday closed the book on a DUI case involving Addison County’s embattled state’s attorney. Eva Vekos pleaded no contest to a DUI charge, which means she won’t challenge the charges, but it is a legal admission of guilt.

It’s been a long road to get to this point. It all started back on January 25, 2024, when Vekos was originally charged with DUI after state troopers said she drove to the scene of a homicide in Bridport while intoxicated.

“You’re slurring your words a little bit, and there’s a strong smell of alcohol coming from your breath and your person,” a trooper told Vekos on video footage from the scene.

She was taken to the New Haven Barracks for processing and placed in a holding cell. She refused to answer any questions, take any tests, or have her fingerprints and photo taken.

Vekos told officers she had one drink with a meal. “I came out to participate in a homicide scene investigation as part of my job,” she said.

“I understand that, and maybe that’s where your discretion could have been better used,” the trooper responded.

“In what way?” Vekos asked.

“Well if you knew you had a drink or two...” the trooper said.

“An hour ago — one — an hour ago — with a meal. Doesn’t make me inebriated,” Vekos replied.

In March of 2024, Vekos temporarily lost her ability to practice law after refusing to provide information about her medical leave following her arrest to the state Supreme Court.

She also angered law enforcement with an email after her arrest, saying she did not “feel safe around cops” and insulting their intelligence.

Her law suspension was lifted in April, but the controversy surrounding Vekos had already raised major concerns from victim advocates and Addison County delegates about her ability to fulfill her role.

“We deserve to have a state’s attorney that has the trust of the public,” said Sen. Ruth Hardy, D-Addison County, in April 2024.

All but one lawmaker from Addison County signed onto a letter calling for Vekos to resign, citing concerns for public safety in the county.

Sentiments still felt up to this day. Just last week, both the Vermont Democratic and Progressive Parties called for Vekos’s resignation. Governor Phil Scott agreed .

“I’ve had to make some decisions similar to that over the last few months, so it’s something that I think they feel strongly about, and I believe there is some merit to that,” Scott said.

Vekos has said she does not plan to step down and refutes claims that she treats crime victims poorly.

As a part of her no contest plea, she’ll get a deferred six-month sentence of probation, avoiding jail time. If she succeeds in probation, at the end of the six months, the charge will be expunged.

Her term as state’s attorney is up in 2026. It’s unclear if she will run for reelection.
