Siena poll: Hochul has 19-point lead over Stefanik

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/siena-poll-hochul-has-19-point-lead-over-stefanik/

ALBANY, New York (WWNY) - A new Siena College poll shows Governor Kathy Hochul holds double-digit leads over Republican candidates Elise Stefanik and Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman.

Among a sample of registered New York voters, 49% of those polled say they’d vote for Governor Hochul, 30% would choose Congresswoman Stefanik, and 20% remain undecided. That’s a 19-point difference right now.

Congresswoman Stefanik’s office has yet to react, but Hochul’s office provided 7NEWS with a statement saying, “Elise Stefanik and Bruce Blakeman are focused on keeping Trump happy and helping him jack up New Yorkers’ costs with expensive tariffs - and voters are seeing that clearly.”

Pollster Steve Greenberg with Siena College tells us he’s not surprised about Hochul’s early lead, believing Republicans face an uphill battle in New York State.

“They have to solidify republicans, pick off more of those conservative, moderate Democrats, and win the lion’s share of independents,” he said.

The poll also featured New York City Mayor-elect Zohran Mamdani. His popularity has gone up since November. Now, 46% of those polled say they approve of him. 31% disapprove.

“At least until he gets sworn in, he’ll have a honeymoon. We’ll see how long that lasts when he’s sworn in and he goes from mayor-elect to mayor,” said Greenberg.

Also, President Donald Trump. Roughly 60% of polled voters believe the administration has gone too far when it comes to immigration crackdowns, tariffs, the persecution of political opponents, and bombing boats in international waters.

“What we’re seeing is independents siding much more with Democrats on that question right now than they are with Republicans,” said Greenberg.

Numbers for U.S. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer show more people (49%) disapprove of his job performance than approve of it (36%).

Copyright 2025 WWNY. All rights reserved.
