Social media post about wooden box in Mohawk school prompts police investigation

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-16
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/16/social-media-posts-about-wooden-box-mohawk-school-prompts-police-investigation/

AKWESASNE, New York (WWNY) - St. Regis Mohawk Tribal Police are investigating allegations that a special needs student was mistreated in the Salmon River Central School District.

Lt. Ted Cook said the probe began Monday morning after photos of a wooden box began circulating on social media.

The person who posted the pictures on Facebook, Chrissy Jacobs, stated that the box was built for special needs students at the St. Regis Mohawk School in Akwesasne.

“This is supposed to be school for our beloved babies not a prison with a kid size ‘hole,’ she wrote.

(The Facebook post below includes language that some might find inappropriate.)

7 News reached out to Jacobs for more information and will update this story if we hear back.

Lt. Cook said police are “fact-finding” and declined to comment further on the case.

In a social media post, Salmon River Central School District Superintendent Dr. Stanley Harper wrote, “At no time was the item depicted in the photographs used by any student at the mohawk school. In fact, prior to the circulation of these photographs, the District had already determined that it would not utilize the specific device shown.”

(See his full statement below.)

7 News repeatedly reached out to Harper for more information and to find out if the “device” he refers to is the wooden box. We have not heard from him.

In the Facebook post, the superintendent said, “The District permits the use of timeout as a behavior management technique only in limited circumstances. Timeout involves the monitored separation of a student in a non-locked setting and is used solely for the purpose of de-escalation, helping the student regain control, and preparing the student to return to their educational program.”

Harper added that employees receive annual training on the district’s policies and procedures concerning the use of timeout.

The Saint Regis Mohawk Tribal Council released a statement saying it’s aware of the allegations.

“We want to assure the community that we hear their concerns and fully intend to take any and all actions necessary to hold individuals accountable for any wrongdoing, and that corrective action(s) are taken to ensure this never happens again,” the council posted on Facebook .

The social media posts have struck a nerve in the Mohawk and Indigenous peoples’ communities.

There’s a long history of Indigenous children being abused and neglected in residential schools .

Copyright 2025 WWNY. All rights reserved.
