New boutique vends crystals, ethically sourced clothing

Site: KEENESENTINEL
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://www.keenesentinel.com/news/local/bliss-underground-clothing-crystals-swanzey-nh/article_0486c3c5-9e7a-46ae-ac5c-2896a3a18c54.html

SWANZEY — Conscious consumers look no further. Bliss Underground has arrived with ethically sourced clothing and a collection of crystals.

The boutique on the basement level of 135 Old Homestead Highway is the brainchild of owner Sarah Holmes. Since opening in November, Holmes has been catering to conscientious shoppers.

"For people who are aware of where their clothing comes from, this is their vibe," Holmes said.

Bliss Underground opened in November, bringing a quality-over-quantity approach that Holmes said is the antidote to fast fashion.

Holmes, 41, is breaking back into selling sustainable styles. Originally from the New Hampshire coast, Holmes spent seven years in Oregon, where she ran a gems business, before moving to the Monadnock Region in 2023.

Now a Swanzey resident, Holmes also lived in Indonesia for a decade working with local artisans to design clothing, she said. She works full-time at Maple Nut Kitchen on Prospect Street in Swanzey in addition to running Bliss Underground.

Though small, Underground Bliss is packed with racks of ponchos, silk gowns with floral prints and pants with ruffled legs. Holmes doesn't buy her products in bulk — they come from small batches, which is less wasteful, she said.

The selection comprises pieces by artists from Oregon as well as Holmes' own designs, she said. She also stocks a truck of leatherbound journals from Dreamtender Leather in Eugene, Ore., which does small-scale artisanal leather work.

Holmes is currently looking for artisans from New Hampshire or Maine, she said.

She described her products as "a little eccentric," but geared toward "people who are conscious consumers."

At the shop, tops run anywhere from $28 to $40, pants from $48 to $70 and dresses $40 to $60, Holmes said.

Bliss Underground also offers a selection of crystals and gems. On Wednesday, a display case featured pyrite, amethyst and lemurian quartz, among others. There was also a smattering of bracelets, necklace pendants and rings.

"When I invest in crystals, they're ones I would be happy with if they didn't sell," Holmes said.

Bliss Underground is open Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 3 to 5 p.m., Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
