Made in Vermont: Strafford Organic Creamery Eggnog

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/made-vermont-strafford-organic-creamery-eggnog/

STRAFFORD, Vt. (WCAX) - A brisk, busy morning at Rockbottom Farm in Strafford kicks off the season for one of Vermont’s most anticipated holiday treats: eggnog.

There’s always plenty of work to be done on Vermont’s dairies. But this time of year, the workload gets even richer.

“Most of the cows that are here now were born on this farm, grew up here,” said Earl Ransom, the owner and operator of Rockbottom Farm.

Ransom, who grew up on the family farm his parents started in 1979, says that while plenty has changed in the region, family and cows remain the key ingredients.

“Back then, we were one 18 or 20 dairy farms in Strafford and now we’re the only one,” he said.

He and his wife, Amy, took over the operation in the early 2000s. They opened Strafford Organic Creamery in 2001, bottling milk and making ice cream right on the farm. In 2002, they added eggnog to the mix, an addition that has since become a holiday staple.

“Just milk and eggs and sugar and nutmeg... you know, not too complicated,” he said.

Their milk comes from a herd of 72 certified-organic cows, mostly Jerseys and Guernseys. On our visit, they were all outside in the pasture.

“Their milk is higher in fat, richer in flavor than Holstein milk. And that makes for excellent ice cream and excellent eggnog,” Ransom explained.

But rich milk is only half the recipe. Inside the creamery, employees spend hours cracking eggs by hand. Yolks are carefully separated from whites, measured and mixed into the creamery’s secret ratio. Earl says it’s the detail that sets their eggnog apart.

“Extra yolks makes a big difference,” he said, declining to specify any more.

Strafford Organic Creamery bottles eggnog only from early November through Christmas. At peak production, they fill about a thousand glass quarts a day, yet despite the long hours, demand still outpaces supply.

“People will actually ask what the truck schedule is so that they can... because most stores will put people on a limit for how many bottles they can buy. So, if you want to buy three or four bottles, you might have to go to more than one store,” laughed Ransom.

The locally made eggnog costs a few dollars more than the usual supermarket brands, but Earl says the price reflects the care that goes into each bottle.

“Our whole motto is, we want to make the best dairy products that people have ever had,” he said.

Making “udderly eggcellent” eggnog is no easy task, but they do it to add some spice to your holiday spirit.

“People who are buying eggnog are always happy. And when you’re selling somebody something that makes them happy, then, you know, it’s a good day,” said Ransom.

From pasture to pint, Earl and Amy Ransom are turning milk and eggs into holiday magic, one bottle at a time.

You can buy the eggnog at most co-op grocery stores across Vermont, or check here for a store near.
