New York’s cellphone ban in schools showing promising results, survey finds

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/new-yorks-cellphone-ban-schools-showing-promising-results-survey-finds/

NEW YORK STATE, (WBNG) — Results are starting to come in from schools across New York State regarding the statewide smartphone ban inside public schools, many of which have seen better learning and engagement from students.

In an announcement from Governor Kathy Hochul’s office on Monday, Dec. 1, 83% of surveyed schools across the state reported more positive classrooms and better student engagement than before the ban.

More than 350 schools that implemented the smartphone ban in 2025 responded to a statewide survey conducted by the Governor’s office.

Of the results, 92% of schools reported a smooth transition to the cellphone ban.

“This has been a great initiative,” said a principal in the Finger Lakes region. “The state mandate, coupled with district autonomy over how to implement — i.e., storage method and consequences for infraction, is important," they said.

The smartphone ban is showing more positive classroom environments and better engagement.

“This has been a game changer,” a Superintendent from the Southern Tier said. “Students have their heads up and not down looking at their phones,” they said. “Students are having conversations with each other! I observe in a lot of classrooms, and there is a noticeable difference in student engagement,” they said.

On the teaching aspect of things, 75% of schools reported that the policy has improved their ability to teach effectively.

“High school teachers shared that students’ responses to literature are deeper and more meaningful,” said a district administrator from Western New York. “They are seeing students actually reading and not just looking for Cliff Notes or quick answers,” they said. “They are interacting with text at a deeper level,” they said.

In May, Governor Hochul announced that New York would become the largest state in the country with a statewide restriction on smartphones in schools.

The bell-to-bell policy prohibits unsanctioned use of smartphones or other internet-enabled devices in K-12 schools for the entire school day.

Schools were able to adopt and implement their own plans for storing the smartphones. Many schools opted for specialized pouches that secure the phone via a magnet. The phones remain in the student’s possession throughout the day, but prevent them from being used.

Schools were required by the state to provide parents with a way to contact their children during the day when necessary.

Copyright 2025 WBNG. All rights reserved.
