Vermont 7th grader wins national writing contest with spooky soccer story

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-01
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/01/middle-schooler-writes-award-winning-scary-story/

DERBY, Vt. (WCAX) - A Vermont middle schooler penned an award-winning story about soccer. It’s inspiring other Northeast Kingdom students to embrace creativity.

What started as a seemingly run-of-the-mill writing assignment just put a Derby seventh grader on the map.

“The fog felt like a living thing, swirling around the ancient stadium like a hungry beast,” read Oliver Sykes.

Writing has never been Sykes’ favorite activity.

Reporter Sophia Thomas: Do you love writing?

Oliver Sykes: Not really.

Sophia Thomas: But you just won a writing award. So, what do you think your secret is?

Oliver Sykes: I thought it was just like another class, like another assignment for class.

Every seventh grader in Vicky Gratton’s language arts class at North Country Union Junior High School submitted a story to a national spooky story competition.

Sykes, an avid soccer player, wrote about an eerie match.

“Lucas turned to console his own team but found them equally disoriented. They hadn’t lost, but they hadn’t won either,” read Sykes.

On Halloween, Sykes learned that he was one of two winners in his age group.

“I couldn’t even think. I was like, there were 1,200 stories that was entered. And I was, like, one out of those. And it was so crazy,” said Sykes.

He says Gratton’s teaching helped him win the title. She emphasizes descriptive language, even bringing students to a nearby river for inspiration.

“I feel like it’s really important for kids to start to incorporate sensory details, figurative language, you know, to really create those visual images, you know, in a person’s mind when they’re reading their stories,” Gratton said.

Sykes’s story was published online, and he got a classroom pizza party and a $100 gift card for class supplies.

Gratton says students were pumped for the fun and Sykes’ success.

“I think we were all really excited for Oliver. Like, as a class, it was like, he represented, you know, the writing that we all did,” said Gratton.

Sykes says mechanical engineering, not writing, is in his future. However, to his peers, he’s an author.

Oliver Sykes: They kept coming up to me, and they were, like, that was actually a really good story.

Sophia Thomas: How did that feel to hear that?

Oliver Sykes: It felt good.

“In the whispers, sometimes when the stadium was empty, and the wind was just right, he swore he could still hear them. A mournful echo of a game that would never end,” read Oliver.

Gratton says other students are already looking forward to submitting their stories in next fall’s competition.
