New federal rules may threaten Vermont hospital funding over gender-affirming care for minors

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-18
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/18/new-federal-rules-may-threaten-vermont-hospital-funding-over-gender-affirming-care-for-minors/

Theo Wells-Spackman is a Report for America corps member who reports for VTDigger.

Hospitals participating in Medicaid and Medicare would be prohibited from administering gender-affirming care to minors under one of several new proposed rules, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, said Thursday.

Help VTDigger hit $24K in matching funds from Newsmatch.

The announcement appears to clash with Vermont’s 2023 “shield laws”, which offer protections to providers and recipients of gender-affirming care, and establish that treatment as an essential part of full insurance coverage.

In a press conference Thursday morning, Kennedy said his department’s move was grounded in an executive order signed by President Donald Trump earlier this year. One new rule will seek to cut off Medicaid funds for “sex-rejecting” practices including hormone therapy and surgical procedures, among other treatments, while another proposes to withhold both Medicaid and Medicare money entirely from hospitals that provide those services.

“This is not medicine — it is malpractice,” Kennedy said of such care. “These procedures fail to meet professionally-recognized standards.”

Many of the country’s leading professional medical associations — including the American Medical Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics — are supportive of gender affirming care for minors.

The University of Vermont Medical Center’s Transgender Youth Program is the primary place in Vermont for young people to access gender-affirming care.

“We want our patients to know that as of today, there is no change in how we provide care,” a spokesperson for the hospital network said by email on Thursday. “We remain committed to ensuring the availability of evidence-based gender-affirming care … Research consistently shows that this care improves health and well-being, and decisions should remain between patients and their providers.”

Vermont Health Commissioner Rick Hildebrant stressed the state’s commitment to providing gender-affirming care Thursday.

“Access to gender affirming care is the law in Vermont,” Hildebrant said in an emailed statement. “We will continue to support providers and work to preserve access to care for vulnerable Vermont communities, regardless of any potential federal changes.”

All of Vermont’s hospitals accept Medicaid patients. Indeed, each of the state’s hospitals relied on Medicare and Medicaid for more than two-thirds of inpatient care payments in 2022, according to an analysis by the American Hospital Association.

Mehmet Oz, who heads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the proposed rules would likely remain open for comment and deliberation for several months before they are finalized.

Advocates in Vermont expressed concern over Thursday’s developments.

“Vermont’s responsibility to provide access to affordable health care for all kids does not change based on federal Medicare and Medicaid rules,” said Monica Allard, a staff attorney at ACLU of Vermont, in a statement Thursday.

“With these proposed rules, the Trump administration is trying to threaten health care access for everyone unless providers abandon trans youth,” Allard continued. “That’s not governance — it’s extortion.”

Kennedy said he expects legal pushback to the new rules.

“The number of lawsuits with my name on it right now is almost beyond counting,” he said, adding that he was confident of eventual success in such litigation.

This story will be updated.

Dear reader,

VTDigger has a key opportunity today to strengthen independent news across Vermont. NewsMatch, a national campaign supporting nonprofit newsrooms, is matching every gift to VTDigger up to $24,000.

With only two weeks left in our year end member drive, we need everyone to pitch in . Today, your donation will be doubled to power the fact-based reporting Vermonters rely on .As editor-in-chief, I see every day how much this work matters. With legislative debates moving quickly and decisions affecting everything from taxes to health care to housing, our job is to follow the facts, ask tough questions and bring clarity to the issues shaping daily life in Vermont. You can support this work today with a gift that goes twice as far .

Geeta Anand Editor-in-chief, VTDigger
