FIRST ALERT WEATHER DAY: Strong winds continue to impact our region Friday

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/19/first-alert-weather-day-strong-winds-continue-impact-our-region-friday/

BURLINGTON, Vt. (WCAX) - Friday is a First Alert Weather Day as we continue to track strong gusty winds. We’re already seeing thousands of power outages along with downed trees and powerlines and the strong winds will continue today.

WIND TIMELINE AND INTENSITY

Gusty winds will impact the region throughout Friday, with the strongest gusts expected mid to late morning. Widespread wind gusts of 35-45 mph are expected, with a few gusts reaching 50-60+ mph in some areas.

IMPACTS

The primary concern with Friday’s windstorm is scattered power outages, particularly in areas experiencing the strongest gusts of 50-60 mph. Heavy rain mid to late morning combined with the strong winds could cause reduced visibility and make travel more difficult. If you have holiday decorations or lawn furnishings, expect them to be blown around or potentially damaged if left unsecured.

OTHER HAZARDS WE’RE WATCHING

Beyond the gusty winds, there are several other weather concerns to be aware of. Rapid snowmelt combined with heavy rain could lead to elevated river and stream levels, though flooding is not currently expected. Then later this evening, temperatures will be dropping below freezing potentially creating slick spots on roadways. The high terrain will also be seeing the rain changing over to a few snow showers this evening which could cause slippery conditions in the mountains.

PREPERATION

Power outages will continue through the day and are possible into early Saturday as well, especially if you live in an area prone to outages. Make sure to keep your devices charged so you can stay informed even if you lose power. For all the latest updates, download the First Alert Weather App here . Weather alerts can be sent directly to your phone so you can be notified before conditions impact your area. We’ll have continuous updates on WCAX as this system continues to move through our region.

SAFETY REMINDERS

Please keep in mind that you should treat all downed powerlines as live wires and keep your distance! Never drive over downed powerlines. Slow down and use caution on the roads through the day and remember to turn your headlights on while driving through the rain.
