North Country luger prepares for first Olympics after father’s death

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/19/north-country-luger-prepares-first-olympics-after-fathers-death/

LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (WCAX) - Roughly 100 luge athletes are in Lake Placid this week preparing for the FIL World Luge World Cup, the last luge World Cup in Lake Placid before the 2026 Winter Olympics and an Olympic qualifier for many athletes.

“This is an event that really helps cement their place on what hopefully will really be being a member of team USA or for their host country back home,” said the Olympic Regional Development Authority’s Darcy Norfolk Rowe.

Among the athletes is 24-year-old Ray Brook native Sophia Kirkby, who hopes to compete in her first Olympics. The games will also mark the first year for her category, women’s doubles.

“I started luge when I was eight years old and I just kept doing it every winter ever since. And now, 16 years later, we are coming up to the Olympics,” Kirkby said.

With a World Cup in her backyard, Kirkby says she’s feeling confident heading into the weekend. “I have my family and my friends and I might have a couple of advantages seeing that I have thousands of runs here,” Kirkby said.

Some of her family plan to join her in Italy, but she’ll be without her father, who introduced her to the sport and spent years cheering her on. In 2024, he passed away due to prostate cancer.

“I have a lot of memories here at Mount Van Hoevenberg. Like, the place looks different, but I can just see how things were back when it was when I had my Dad to bring me to all of my classes, to bring me to all of my training. It was really just helpful just to have him here with me as a little kid before I made the luge development team because I didn’t have coaches then. I just had a couple coaches with the local program. But he’s the one that got me to do it all. He’s the one that pushed me for the sport,” Kirkby said.

Whether in Lake Placid or Italy, Kirkby says she’ll be thinking of him as she goes for gold.

Kirkby hand-made 2,000 pins to take to Italy. They’re inscribed with “women’s doubles” and “Milano Cortina” and show a bobsled and Italy.
