Reduced squad of Russian lugers compete at Lake Placid alongside Ukranians

Site: WCAX
Published: 2025-12-19
URL: https://www.wcax.com/2025/12/19/russian-athletes-return-luge-world-cup-amid-ukraine-conflict/

LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (WCAX) - International politics are the backdrop at the luge World Cup in Lake Placid this weekend as Russian athletes return for the first time since the start of the war in Ukraine.

For the first time since 2022, Russian athletes are being allowed to compete as individual neutral athletes after a court ruling overturned the International Luge Federation’s ban.

“The whole premise of the guidelines is neutrality. That they aren’t competing under the Russian flag or with Russian emblems and they have not supported the aggression in Ukraine,” said Dwight Bell, secretary general of the International Luge Federation.

However, days before the start of the competition, half of the Russian athletes set to compete were barred from doing so. Bell says officials received “new evidence” that showed the athletes violated neutrality guidelines. “The executive board voted to accept the findings of the panel and implement it, which means we had to disqualify three athletes here in Lake Placid,” he said.

Ukrainian luger Anton Dukach says he doesn’t think any Russian athlete should compete in the Olympics. “They are not neutral. They are supporting the war against Ukraine, against civilians, against family members, against me,” he said.

Dukach recalls being back home before the 2023 luge World Cup when his apartment was hit by Russian missiles. “I was almost killed, my neighbors was killed. My family members was so afraid, so scared,” he said. He and other Ukrainian athletes are disappointed the FIL hasn’t disqualified all of the Russian athletes.

“Sports unfortunately are not outside of politics because the Russian Federation is using this as propaganda tool in Russia. They are showing this that, oh, our athletes were let back, while saying that Russian athletes are Putin’s battalion,” said Andriy Mandziy, a Ukrainian luge Olympian, through translator.

American luger Jonny Gustafson, who shared a podium with one of the Russian athletes, says it’s out of athletes’ control. “It’s definitely interesting having the neutral athletes here but it is not a decision that we make at the athlete level, it’s something that comes from the FIL and that’s their decision,” Gustafson said.

Bell says they’ll continue to monitor the neutrality of Russian athletes. They’ll still have the chance to earn a spot in the Olympics, just like everyone else. “It’s up to them now to number one remain neutral but number two is to compete and earn a spot. They are not going to be given a spot,” Bell said.

The FIL’s luge World Cup lasts until Saturday at Mount Van Hoevenberg.
