Woman with ties to Karoline Leavitt, detained by ICE, has deep respect for Leavitt family: attorney

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-11-30
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/bruna-ferreira-detained-ice-karoline-leavitt-ice/69581585

'She is not doing well, but she is strong and resilient,' Pomerleau said

'She is not doing well, but she is strong and resilient,' Pomerleau said

'She is not doing well, but she is strong and resilient,' Pomerleau said

The mother of Karoline Leavitt's nephew, who has been detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has told her attorney that she has no bad blood with the Leavitt family, and has deep respect and admiration for the White House press secretary, who is the godmother to the 11-year-old son whom she shares with Leavitt's brother, an attorney representing the woman told WMUR on Saturday.

Bruna Ferreira was taken into custody by ICE agents earlier this month in Massachusetts and was on her way to pick up her son in New Hampshire, her attorney, Todd Pomerleau, said. She was approached, he said, by someone who already knew her name.

Ferreira is currently in an ICE processing facility in South Louisiana, records with the Department of Homeland Security confirm.

"She is not doing well, but she is strong and resilient," Pomerleau said.

Press Secretary Leavitt's brother, Michael Leavitt, previously told WMUR-TV on Tuesday that he remains most concerned about the well-being and safety of his son.

According to Pomerleau, Ferreira came to the U.S. legally as a child at 6 years old and has never left the country. He said that she is in the process of applying for her green card to stay in the country permanently.

Pomerleau said that after coming to the country at such a young age, she would only have been responsible for being in visa violation status and until six months after her 18th birthday.

"There is no independent reason for her to be removed. She is just waiting her turn," Pomerleau said, adding that he feels that this is a game of political football.

By the time she was an adult, Ferreira had DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, Pomerleau said, referencing the immigration program that grants temporary protections from deportation to people who were brought to the U.S. as children.

"She is caught up in this limbo," Pomerleau told WMUR. "Under the law, she should be released."

While helping raise her son, Ferreira, Pomerleau said, owns two businesses.

According to Pomerleau, there are currently no ICE detention center beds for women in Massachusetts, forcing them to be sent out of state.

Ferreira, Pomerleau stated, is currently awaiting a federal court hearing, as well as a bond hearing.

According to DHS, Ferreira, who is originally from Brazil, entered the U.S. on a B2 tourist visa that required her to depart by June 6, 1999. DHS reported Ferreira had a previous arrest for battery. However, Pomerleau insisted that Ferreira has no criminal record.

"Bruna has no criminal record whatsoever. I don't know where that is coming from. Show us the proof. There's no charges out there. She's not a criminal, illegal alien, we're hearing that said about anyone who's not a U.S. citizen," Pomerleau said.

Karoline Leavitt, a New Hampshire native from Atkinson, was appointed White House press secretary by President Donald Trump in November 2024. A source said that Karoline Leavitt has not spoken to Ferreira in many years.

When asked about the arrest, Karoline Leavitt previously told News 9 that she has no comment.
