Brown University suspect may have visited shooting range in New Hampshire, sources say

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brown-university-mit-shooter-autopsy-results/69823196

The autopsy of the suspect in the Brown University mass shooting and the killing of an MIT professor shows that he died of a single gunshot wound to the head.

Investigators found Claudio Neves Valente, 48, dead Thursday night in a Salem storage unit.

His death has been ruled a suicide, and investigators believe he died Tuesday, a day after killing MIT professor Nuno Loureiro in Brookline, Massachusetts. Investigators said Neves Valente rented the unit sometime in November.

Police said Neves Valente opened fire Saturday in Brown's Barus & Holley engineering building, killing two people and injuring nine others.

A source also told News 9's sister station WCVB that Neves Valente might have visited a shooting range in New Hampshire before carrying out these attacks. A receipt for that range was found in a storage locker, according to the source.

The source did not reveal the name of the shooting range.

Neves Valente was a Portuguese national who was a permanent U.S. resident. Investigators said he went to college with Loureiro in Portugal in the 1990s.

Thursday night, officers found Neves Valente's rental car outside the storage facility.

"We had to act fast in order to find him and to prevent him from harming anyone else," said Leah B. Foley, the U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts.

When his body was found, he had two 9mm Glock firearms equipped with green laser sights, five magazines with nearly 200 rounds of ammunition and nearly $900 in cash, according to ABC News. In his car, investigators said they found more ammunition and body armor.

"And to take two children away from their families, it just goes to show how sick and demented he was," Foley said. "And the fact that he took his own life. I don't think he did that because he was remorseful or had any regret. I think he just didn't want to get caught and be held accountable."

It's unclear where Neves Valente acquired the guns. Nicholas Daugustine, owner of Milford Firearms, said it's likely he bought them in Florida, his last known residence.

"Any handgun has to be purchased in the state that you live in," Daugustine said. "So, if he was from Miami and bought it legally – which I doubt he did – but if he did, he would have had to fill out a background check form, 4473, and he would have had to pass that background check successfully."

>> See a timeline of the case here:
