Reddit post 'blew case open,' Brown University shooting investigators say

Site: WMUR
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://www.wmur.com/article/brown-university-shooting-witness-reddit-121925/69823835

A tip on the social media forum platform Reddit gave investigators the clue they needed to determine who was responsible for killing two Brown University students and an MIT professor.

According to a police affidavit, the tip referenced a post on the Providence, Rhode Island subreddit, a smaller subset of the broader Reddit site focused on the city.

The following comment was posted in response to another post containing images released by the FBI of the suspect, with the author saying the following:

I’m being dead serious. The police need to look into a grey Nissan with Florida plates, possibly a rental. That was the car he was driving. It was parked in front of the little shack behind the Rhode Island Historical Society on the Cooke St side. I know because he used his key fob to open the car, approached it and then something prompted him to back away. When he backed away he relocked the car. I found that odd so when he circled the block I approached the car and that is when I saw the Florida plates. He was parked in the section between the gate of the RIHS and the corner of Cooke and George St.

The affidavit says investigators got a tip about this comment Tuesday.

Police released photos Wednesday of a person investigators wanted to talk to, who they say was "in proximity" to the suspect, then considered a person of interest. An hour after those photographs came out, the author — who investigators call "John" in the police report — came forward, claiming to be the author of the Reddit post.

The FBI confirms that the man who came forward and individual in Wednesday's photos are the same person, despite the author disputing that claim in a separate post on Reddit.

"He blew this case right open," said Rhode Island Attorney General Peter Neronha, during Thursday night's press conference. "He blew it open."

During a police interview, the affidavit says John claims he saw the suspect in the Barus & Holley building early Saturday afternoon. He described the man's clothes as inappropriate for the weather, along with a facemask that matched the description given by police of the one worn by the person of interest.

After the two made eye contact multiple times, John followed the person out.

John watched the man approach a car near the Rhode Island Historical Society, which he knew belonged to him due to a key fob that unlocked it as he approached. He also noted it was possibly a rental, due to Florida license plates.

John said the man kept looping around the block every time he saw John, which John described as a "cat and mouse" pattern.

The two eventually encountered each other, after John ran up to the suspect and asked why he was circling the block away from his car. The suspect responded, "I don't know you from nobody," and asked why John was "harassing" him in their final interaction.

"His testimony, had we needed it, would not only have been credible, it would have been persuasive," Neronha said. "He was as outstanding a witness as I've seen.

"David Siegel, a criminal law expert and professor at New England Law Boston, says what some may consider to be small tips could be more significant than people think at first."It's often something that somebody thinks is innocuous, but is odd," he said.

Between the shooting and the police interview, it took four days to collect the witness' testimony. Siegel says concerns over safety can lead to delays in cases like this, but he said those perspectives can make a difference in solving them.

"So many of our actions leave digital traces somewhere, or information traces that can be followed up, and that much of a lead can be really informative for law enforcement," he noted.

The Boston office of the FBI sent the following statement to News 9 regarding the reward offered for information:

The FBI maintains longstanding policy not to confirm the identity of individuals who assist the FBI by providing tips or information. Additionally, the FBI will not comment on whether reward money has been paid and to whom. The FBI takes this position for privacy protection, and to ensure the public's continued cooperation and incentivization with any future assistance. Receiving tips from the public remains one of the FBI's best tools in preventing, detecting, and deterring crime.

The witness said in a different post on Reddit Wednesday that he didn't plan to speak to the media. Regardless, News 9 has reached out for comment, and is yet to hear back.
