Additional funds for BF train station draws concern

Site: REFORMER
Published: 2025-12-22
URL: https://www.reformer.com/local-news/additional-funds-for-bf-train-station-draws-concern/article_28e33e25-49dd-4626-8181-cba20c2b1781.html

BELLOWS FALLS — The Rockingham Select Board has approved an additional $75,000 to the growing local cost for the purchase and renovation of the historic but dilapidated Bellows Falls train station.

But the additional money — requested by Rockingham Development Director Gary Fox for re-planning work — didn't come without some skepticism and questions.

The money was approved earlier this month with three positive votes from the five-member board, but two abstentions from board members Bonnie North and Rick Cowan, who both said they were surprised by what they say is an unanticipated financial request.

The money will be used to pay for pre-planning needed for the federal Consolidated Rail Infrasructure and Safety Improvement grant the town has received.

Both North and Cowan said that earlier this year, as the town struggled to work out the details of the actual purchase and renovation of the train station, no mention was made of the $75,000 in pre-planning funds, which would be used as a match to a large federal grant, according to Fox.

"We still have no idea what will occupy the incredibly expensive space we are creating. Restaurant? Professional offices? Retail space? Each one would require a different fit out and yield different revenues," he continued. "And, of course, the fitouts will require further hundreds of thousands of dollars. Are we expecting tenants to foot that bill or will taxpayers again be on the hook for that considerable expense?

"Given the multiple millions of state, federal and local tax dollars being spent, voters deserve to hear specific tenant scenarios with rental income numbers reflecting Bellows Falls commercial real estate realities rather than wishful thinking.

"Since I support the concept but not the execution of the project, I chose to express my dissatisfaction via an abstention rather than a 'no' vote," he added.
