Rutland City police chief steps down after report criticizing officers in deadly chase

Site: VTDIGGER
Published: 2025-12-20
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2025/12/20/rutland-city-police-chief-steps-down-after-report-criticizing-officers-in-deadly-chase/

RUTLAND – Rutland City’s Police Commission said Saturday that the police chief would retire early, in an announcement that follows the disclosure of an internal affairs probe that criticized the actions of the police department in a vehicle pursuit that resulted in the death of a young officer.

The action follows news articles earlier this month by VTDigger a nd other media on the probe’s finding as well as reporting by Seven Days that Police Chief Brian Kilcullen had known about the report but had not discussed its findings with the police commission, the civilian body that provides oversight of the police department.

The report, which was shared with the police chief in March, only came to public attention after it was filed in court in November by the lawyer representing a Salisbury man charged with murder in the death of the officer during the high speed chase.

The police commission did not say Saturday after a special meeting whether the chief’s decision to retire early was based on the fact that he had not shared the report much sooner with members.

“That’s a question for him,” Pat Brougham, commission chair, told VTDigger after the meeting. She added of the chief, “We appreciate all of his service.”

Kilcullen was not present at the announcement Saturday. Following the meeting, he could not immediately be reached for comment

The internal report on the investigation concluded that the death of 19-year-old Rutland City Police Officer Jessica Ebbighausen in 2023 was “preventable” if police had followed proper procedures.Tate Rheaume, the Salisbury man driving the vehicle being pursued by police, is being held in jail without bail awaiting trial on a murder charge in her death.

The report on the internal investigation came to public attention after David Sleigh, the lawyer for Rheaume, filed it in Rutland County Superior criminal court in late November in connection with his defense.

The lawyer said he had been unaware of the report until conducting interviews with Rutland police officers as he prepared to defend his client in the murder case. Rheaume slammed nearly head-on into the cruiser driven by the young police officer who died.

Rheaume, 22, who was also injured in the crash, has been held without bail since April of 2024.

Kilcullen’s retirement is effective March 1. In the meantime, the commission Saturday named Rutland City Police Commander Matthew Prouty interim police chief, with Kilcullen assisting him in a “limited capacity focused on supporting a smooth and orderly transition,” according to a statement from the commission.

Prouty, according to the statement, will be responsible for the “operational oversight” of the department.

Kilcullen was hired as police chief in Rutland in 2015. His current contract, last extended in June, was set to expire in 2027, according to Brougham.

The police commission made its announcement that Kilcullen would be retiring early after meeting in executive session Friday and earlier Saturday.

But here’s the truth: Each month, more than 500,000 people read VTDigger, but fewer than 2% donate. We need your help to close that gap and keep providing the public service Vermonters rely on.

Your gift isn’t extra. It’s essential. It keeps our journalism independent and freely accessible to all Vermonters. And this season, it does double duty : powering VTDigger’s newsroom and heating a home for a day through our partnership with the Warmth Support Program of Vermont’s Community Action Agencies.

Sky Barsch, CEO, VTDigger
